Athens Things to do :

1.The Acropolis Museum
Dionysiou Areopagitou 15 | Makrigianni District, Athens 11742, Greece

The New Acropolis Museum, which cost $200 million and sits near the base of the Acropolis with a direct view of the Parthenon, is one of the highest-profile cultural projects undertaken in Europe in this decade.
The new facility, 226,000 square feet of glass and concrete designed by the New York-based architect Bernard Tschumi, replaces the old Acropolis Museum, a small 1874 building tucked into the rock of the Acropolis next to the Parthenon.
Walking over the glass floor and seeing the ruins beneath was an awesome experience. 
The cafe - restaurant is very good and cheap. And of course, this is in te top 3 museums in Greece (as of historical importance) and you can visit with only 5 euros
The installations are amazing--the reconstructed Acropolis on the third floor makes a great deal more sense if you watch the movie on the second floor before heading up.
The 3D movie finishes around 1pm. 

2.Parthenon (Parthenonas)
Acropolis | Top of Dionyssiou Areopagitou, Athens 10558, Greece

the place is simply breathtaking. The tickets to enter are 12 euros, quite worth it. Make sure to wear comfortable shoes, as there are many stairs and slippery stones. The ruins are amazing. The swarming masses are all there by 10.00 by which time you should be departing. 

3.Temple of Hephaestus
Agora, Athens, Greece

Just a walk futher down from the Acropolis. Nice cafes and restaurants around. Again, go early in the morning.
The Temple of Hephaestus is located inside the larger area of the Ancient Agora. This whole area is worth a visit. As I have mentioned before....good walking shoes and go early. Not many people were there when we were and I think the cruise ship folks don't do this.

4.Erechtheion
Athens 10558, Greece

the second largest temple on the Acropolis has a complex and unique structure, including its famous Porch of the Caraytis with statues of six graceful maidens on the south side and a four-pillared porch with six Ionic columns on the north side.
Parthenon Is right next to it. Recommend listening to Rick Steve's tour guide as you walk along!

5.Acropolis (Akropolis)
Dionysiou Areopagitou Street, Athens 10558, Greece
Definitely try to get to the Acropolis as soon as it opens at 8am to beat the heat and crowds. We walked there from our hotel and aimed to get there at 8am, but couldn't find the ticket booth because the area was so poorly labelled. Be sure to ask someone at your hotel or someone on the street when you get close to save yourself from wandering around in vain and cursing your map! Also, bring plenty of water because we didn't see any public water fountains and the drinks near the entrance were expensive. Keep your combination entrance ticket (12€) for other sites in Athens. We actually thought the site was much smaller than expected, so if you aren't on a tour, less than two hours walking around reading from a guidebook doing a self-tour is sufficient.
take WATER with you. Not that small Evian bottle you carry around town, but double that Per Person. It was hot and full sun. 

Thirdly, allocate four hours! It is a walk up, plus endless temples and sites to visit on top of the Acropolis, plus the walk down. Take your time to enjoy.
This place is really historic but it's in the midst of a rebuild. It's worth going to for maybe an hour then walk down to the Agora (NW side) and around to the Plaka.

6. Odeum of Herodes Atticus (Odeion / Irodion)
Odos Dionissiou Areopayitou, Athens, Greece
You walk pass this theatre on the way up to the Acropolis. 
If you enter the Acropole from the southeast, it's one of the first things you see.
This is definitely a cool sight as you ascend or descend from Acropolis. 

7.Temple of Athena Nike
Athens 10558, Greece
Small building on the right as you enter the acropolis.
The earliest Ionic building on the Acropolis, this small temple of the goddess of victory depicts assemblies of the gods and Greek battles against the Barbarians and the Boeotians.
We did not know the history surrounding the Temple of Athena Nike before we visited the Acropolis. We downloaded an audio tour from Rick Steve's Audio Europe and we were delighted to hear the history while visiting the site. It was a free app and it made our trip delightful as we wandered on our own schedule.

8.Panathenaic Stadium (Panathinaiko Stadio)
Vassileos Konstantinou Avenue, Athens 999-20, Greece
Great historic site from the original Olympics in 1896. When I visited a decade ago you could just walk in and run around the track. Now you have to pay Euro 3 to get a ticket. This includes a headset with a 20 min history of the site. Most people just take photos from the southern end of the stadium where you can see in uninhibited. Sad that they charge for the site visit but understandable considering every Greek government maintenance budget has recently been slashed.
Its incredible to think that this entire stadium is built from marble but every brick and step is. Its really something to behold
The bus stops right in front of the stadium, so it is easy to get to

9.Filopappos Hill
Southwest of the Acropolis, Athens, Greece
Fee: No
Description: This hill is a favorite for weekending Athenians who come here to picnic and admire the breathaking views.
great views on Akropolis, the best pictures of Akropolis without the disadvantages
The funicular is fun too which takes you up the hill. The restaurant at the top was lovely, The food was good and the views over the city were astounding.
you get the whole of the Acropolis complex plus the town- Loumbardiaris church and exceptional walks-

10.Mt. Lycabettus (Likavitos)
Athens 99920, Greece
This is a "sleeper" location. Take a taxi to the site and ask them to wait for you. It is the highest location within the Athens area. A small cog driven tram takes you up to the Chapel area, where you enjoy a full panaroma of Athens. You can also visit the Chapel.
nice view of athens especially at night!!take the train ( teleferic) from kolonaki, or walk your way there!!
if you want a top view of the city of Athens: go up Likavitos. There is a funiculair but it is quite expensive and uses a tunnel so you won't capture the view. To go up you can take a taxi to the theater on the north side of the hill. From there it's a short walk to the top. Great to escape the crowds!
As you come down there are some lovely cafes who offer refreshemnt at reasonable prices and the church on the top makes a lovely centrepiece
If you're in Athens, even for a short visit, don't leave without going to the top of Lycabettus Hill - you get a stunning 360 view of Athens and the Acropolis site which you'll remember for a long time. If possible, stay for sunset and after dark as you'll see Athens city transform and light up in the dark, including the Acropolis.

The restaurant at the top is a nice experience to have, although food is average.

If you're planning to make your way here via public transport, be careful not to follow the tourist maps too strictly as the start point for the cable car isn't quite where the map shows the cable car starting from.
We took the tram to the top (7 euro round trip)
Go there in the evening either by walking(if you can) or by train at Euro 7 -both way. See Athens, sunset. You can have dinner if you are ready to pay little more. There is a church too
My personal favourite hour to be up there is when the sun comes down, giving a warm color to the city. Then it gets dark and you see the city with the lights on.
At night visitors (most by car) are couples but also families and groups of friends. Ok, if you go really late, after midnight that is, probably you will find more couples - but in a romantic mood :)
There is a cantine there where you could buy chips, beverages, beers etc, but nothing special.
What's special is the little church on the top of Lycabettus. It's a bit of a walk to reach it, as it can not be reached by car, but it worth it. Better go to the church while there is still some day light, afterwards it is not impossible but a little more difficilt to walk the path

11.Theater of Dionysos (Theatro Dionyssou)
Dionysiou Areopagitou Street, Athens 105 58, Greece
If this was an alcarte item, I wouldnt suggest it, but since it's already part of the ticket you bought to see the Acropolis, go check it out. You can get an overhead view from the Acropolis
“One of two ampitheaters at Acropolis”
If you are climbing or descending the back side of Acropolis, stop and look. 

12.Temple of Olympian Zeus (Stiles Olymbiou Dios / Olymbion)
At Leoforos Vas. Olgas and Amalias and easily seen from the street, Athens, Greece
Don't be fooled into thinking that you can see all from the gates. Yes you can to a certain degree but it is really worth the visit inside to see these amazing columns up close. Why travel all the way to Greece and not go inside? There is a very cheap entrance fee as well - a couple of euros. You really do get a "feel" about this place. It is mystical and magical. There are some ancient ruins of roman baths just inside the entrance gate to view too.
I loved seeing this site.. A short walk from Tomb of Unknown Soldier and Gov't gardens. Go to the Temple and look up at the Acropolis. Also, great shots from Parthenon down to the temple.

A lot of people may tell you that there is no need to go in and see these staggering columns because there are plenty of vantage points to take pictures etc from outside the gates. You really should go in and see them though. To stand beneath them and look up at them is an unforgettable experience. It's very hard to imagine how men could have built such things 2000+ years ago. You can buy a collective ticket that allows you entrance to the Acropolis, Roman Agora, Ancient Agora, and the Temple of Olympian Zeus for 12 Euros. You could easily see all of these attractions in 2 days and they are all worth seeing

12.Hephaistion
Athens, Greece
This ancient Greek temple, located on the Acropolis and dedicated to Hephaistos, god of the forge, is one of the few temples to be almost entirely preserved
 the "Temple of Hephaestos" is the same monument with the "Hephaistion" and the same with "Thesseion

13.Agora
Northwest of the Acropolis base, Athens 999-20, Greece
 These ruins, located in the heart of modern Athens, were once the site of the marketplace in ancient times, a political, cultural and economic center of the ancient world.
his area is an ancient city area with the ruins of agora, the Temple of Hephaestas and the Stoa of Attalos, which is the museum that houses some artifacts

14.Tomb of the Unknown Soldier (Mnimeio Agnostou Stratiotou)
Constitution Square, Athens, Greece
Saw the changing of the guard on the hour here, wonderful! There is a lead militant who speaks to the crowd in greek and english. Can take pictures during the ceremony, and with the individual guard at their house after. Go Sunday morning at 10am for official changing with military band.

15.Adrianou Street
Adrianou Street, Athens, Greece
Adrianou street is a must see in Athens. In our visit to Athens (July 2011) we walked this lovely street several times in different hours. Adrian and Kydatheneon Streets are the two main streets of the historical famouse Plaka district. Adrian street starts in Monastiraki flea market towards the roman agora and after the Hadrian Library on the ancient way under the Acropolis. The street is full of tavernaes, cafe shops and restaurants, many small shops - you can find here almost everything . We advice you not to buy in the first shop. Look and compare prices which are flexible.

16.Lake Vouliagmeni
Possidonos Avenue, Athens, Greece
*****Jodi Breakers was shot here.
The scenery is beautiful and they serve nice coffee! tried the iced coffee drink that everyone recommends, it is indeed nice and strong.

You can take the Express E2 bus from Syntagma or bus 14/15 from Glyfada. This takes about 1 hr The Lake is supposed to be 22 degrees but it felt a lot colder than that, but still warmer than the sea. It 8 Euro to get in and well worth it, to use the shower (with hairdryer!) loungers. You can order food from the waiters, who have to go out to get it from near by, this makes it a bit more expensive, but it was really nice food. The lake has those fish that you go to a spa for to eat the dead skin off your feet. So as you get in via the steps prepared to be tickled!! The lake is used by elderly greeks who come down in their robes, swimming caps & googles, it very good entertainment.


17.Kifissia
Athens, Greece
Kifissia is a leafy, modern, upscale northern suburb of Athens. I would not put it on my list of must see areas, except for the fact that it is home to the Varsos Kifissia bakery/patisserie/cafe/blast from the past. I can definitely recommend traveling out to Kifissia just to eat the rice pudding (as well as innumerable other sweet delicacies) at Varsos. Other than that it is more in the realm of "advanced" Athens, a side trip after the big ticket items (Acropolis, etc.) In addition, if you are in Athens in the summer and have maxed out on the heat and the hordes, Kifissia is a nice place to chill out away from the polluted downtown air. In the past, when it was a distinctly separate village, Athenians went there for the cooler weather (it is at a somewhat higher altitude than the big city).
Kifissia is home to many international brand name outlets with prices to match. There are various cafes were the young and beautiful come to see and be seen over a typical cold frappe coffee (beats me why they like it!). There are also various restaurants serving Greek and international fare. So far, we haven't found anything that merits a special culinary expedition, except again for the inimitable and delicious Varsos.
We have never been there at the right time, but there is a yearly Kifissia flower show, said to be the largest in Greece, held at the park across the street from the metro station in spring (April-May). Probably beautiful.
Getting there, as they say, is half the fun. We recommend taking the green metro line to the last stop called, of course, Kifissia. It is about 35 minutes from Omonia and for most of the journey the train travels above ground giving you a tour of various neighborhoods en route, including the contemporary Olympic stadium (a glimpse). I wouldn't suggest driving your own car from Athens to Kifissia, or taking a taxi, as the traffic is always heavy and at times completely jammed. Let the metro do the work for you. 
All in all, we like the place and visit again and again.
Couture shops, elegant cafe shops and 3-4 nice restaurants to eat. You will find all expensive shops here such as Luis Vuitton, Gucci etc. Actually Kifissia is a shopping village... full of green trees and fresh air. You can have fantastic pasta at La Pasteria and very good souvlaki at Mythos. If you walk up on Drosini street you will find Tzitzikas & Mermigas with fantastic modern Greek cuisine.
A great suburb, accessed by bus from top of syntagma square E14/X14 or the metro on the green line within 30-45minutes. It's a chance for people to see a different, more upmarket Athens. Things to do include, bars, restaurunts, TGI Fridays, Applesbees, shops for shopping, paved walking areas, bowling/pool, a church, sheesha bar,open-air cinemas etc. Kiffisia is also joined with Kefalari which some of the things mentioned above are at- If your visiting Athens, I highly reccomened to see this different side to Athens, most people who visit don't and it's a shame

18.Gazi
Athens, Greece
Gazi is an area near to tghe center of athens. Use the metro (blue line) to reach the area in KERAMIKOS station. There you can find some really good and cozy restaurants for dinner (15 - 30€) such us "spitakia" or "mamacas", and same tavernas (10 - 20€) such us "gazoxori" where yoy can taste traditional food and drink like ouzo and raki! There you can find interesting bars with every kind of music for examble "44*" or "gazaki" for rock music, "socialista" for dance musik with tango or latin nights, "tapas" for spanish music, drink, coctail and tapas..! Gazi is also a gay friendly area with many safe, amusing bars.
Ask if during your trip, takes place a festival in "technopolis", so you can see a live sjow on the stage there! 
There are also in winter the "bouzoukia" .. open at 24.00 and close 06.00 in the morning!
Its a place you must visit .. and a place that also improve the night life for greeks!
Dirty, scary and looks like small Eastern European village, Monastiraki's night life is much more vibrant, interesting and foreigners friendly:)
The Bars look okay, the people are very young, hundreds of little greek teens on Bikes everywhere, went on April 2012 Easter night, was not impressed, left after 30 minutes back to Monastiraki TAF (The Art Foundation) Pub which was amazingly cool!
Especially if you are gay/lesbian traveller, not the area is by no means exclusively gay. Every night here is a party with a very vibrant atmosphere, centering around the Kerameikos metro station, and the party goes all night long. Within 3 blocks you can find straight and gay bars (or mixed), late night eateries, coffeeshops, street food vendors, gay saunas and late night dance clubs. If you are a younger traveller or someone that enjoys the nightlife, THIS IS THE PLACE.

19.Kolonaki
Athens 10673, Greece
Kolonaki is a very well known area only 5 to 10 minutes away from the center of Athens. From the beginning of the previous century it was supposed to be the area that rich and famous people of Athens were leaving in traditional blocks.

Now is an area which is connected by two big roads of Athens, Akadimias Str. and Basilis Sofias Str.

The area is full of shops with brands from clothes, shoes etc., bars, clubs and restaurants. Most of them are a little bit expensive especially the stores.

It has an amazing nightlife but parking there is a huge problem almost every time of the day especially during weekends which becomes one of the biggest centers of Athens nightlife.

Kolonaki square is very well now but unfortunately not so good in appearance and not so attractive.
If money is not a problem, this is one of the areas to be (another is Glyfada). And the central square is the place to see and to be seen. Nice shops and completely different from the nearby Plaka.
the streets around the Kolonaki square are perfect for shopping , walking, and drinking coffee especially on a sunny day. Nightlife is high level in all bars in this square

20,Monastiraki
Monastiraki, Athens, Greece
It is very sympatic place to visit, small streets, small shops, charming.I would suggest you to try the Ice-Cream place, we loved it.
Monastiraki is the place to stay and be. Everything is within walking distance - the Acropolis, Agora, shopping, flea markets, restaurants and cafe's. Great people watching too!
You must visit Monastiraki if you are in Athens. Right under Acropolic it self, Monastiraki gives you the old spirit of Greece. Always crouded with joyfull people it gives you feeling of mistery. Visit the taverns all over the place, with very nice stuff and fair prices.
This is a buzzing place to visit at night. Lots of bars and restaurants to choose from
“Great Restaurant-Euxapis (Pleasure)”
If you want an experience and not just a meal, go to this restaurant. The staff will do everything within their power to make you feel welcome, relaxed and satisfied. I only had two nights in Athens and I went here both evenings. I was treated to extras during the meal as well as wonderful hospitality, friendship and generosity. Ilias and George are multilingual, smart, funny and attentive. You will not regret the time spent here.

21.Psiri
off Ermou Street, Athens, Greece
So this is one of the best places in Athens. You can find anything. Bars, theatres, vintage furniture, restaurants, tavernas, coffee shops, absolutely anything. It's full of life, not strictly tourists, but mostly locals and you can get an idea of the actual city life, or better put, of what people do when they go out
The small shops, taverns, theater give this place a real spirit of Athens. Great coffee places, nice people everywhere. Great for a morning or late evening walk.
This is the trendy area to go to for night clubs and bars and basically street-party-like behaviour. It only wakes up around midnight, but the clubs are open until dawn!
Go there in the evening - you will think you are in the wrong area... Just walk the lanes and you will find great restuarants, quaint bars, fabulous graphetti and great little shops. The is cheaper than the Plaka and much less touristy - it is a new area now well known to locals for it's bars, nightlife and food- don't miss this area!
First thing you have to know is that, originally, Psyrri was a working man's district, then it acquired a red-light reputation. Then it became a dump. Then it became "the" gentrification project of the decade, and now it's a very pleasant and rather hip place. We lived there for a while. But the gentrification has happened in a rather uneven fashion, and there are still a few less appetizing streets left. Don't let that deter you: there is lots and lots of cool stuff, especially after 6 pm. Lots of good restaurants and bars. There even is a 24/7 bakery!
THE place for real greek nightlife. walk around and find your "cup of tea". from low key bars to crowded nightclub, you name it!as you can understand...after 23.00hrs comes the real fun, after all this is greece.
one of the best neighborhood in athens with lovely tavernas.i love the creamy pie store in the main square of psiri.

22.Hadrian's Arch (Pili tou Adrianou)
On Leoforos Amalias, Athens, Greece
Seeing Hadrian's Arch is really about getting a photo of it. It is on a busy corner, so getting a picture of it with no cars in front of it is challenging. The arch is down the street from the National Garden and across the street from the Plaka. If you're in this area at all, it's almost a shame not to see it.

23.Parliament Building (Vouli)
Constitution Square, Athens 10671, Greece
The parliament building is not very impressive but the change of the guard in front of the building is very special. We were not inside the building. We walked around the building in the main streets and in the national gardens.A landmark of Athens. And if you decide to go then go to the soldiers that as in every other country are not allowed to speak or smile

24,Flisvos Marina
17561 Paleo Faliro, Athens, Greece
Relax in laid-back cafes and tavernas grouped around this charming yacht marina
I have forgotten how nice it is to walk by the see, and this new marina offered an unforgettable experience. Surrounded by restaurants, cafes, bars, nightclubs, open-air cinemas, and shops, it is like a paradise so close to the city centre. Accessible by both bus and tram services, it can be described as a new centre for the city, as far as leisure and entertainment is concerned! 

25.Voula Beach
Athens, Greece
the price is variable depending on the day (4 euro during the week and 5 at weekends and holidays). the sunbeds are 2 euros each or 4 euros depending on which day you go. the beach is exceptionally clean and there are plenty of staff who will gladly fetch drinks or snacks for you. the sunbeds are very comfy. the waters clean and clear. a perfect place to chill
Please get your map in order. What can a beach do in Plaka? Voula beach is about three kms, the joining beach of Kavouri is free. Parking can be a bit of a hustle and Sundays is one of the fights of Heracles. The sea is a blue flag awarded by the EU so it has very clean waters. Only weekdays.

26.for those single men out there on a little more adventurous path, you might want to try out one of the many adult bars located around Thission and Syngrou avenue.
These are basically the "live" strip-clubs and each has something different to offer the discerning traveller.
	In the centre of Athens in a sensational atmosphere, you will experience a hot night. around beautiful girls dancing for your eyes only. Entrance with drink €10, bottle of whiskey €85. Closed on Sunday.

Address: 255, Siggrou ave., Nea Smirni
Telephone: 210 9424986
Web site: http://www.siroccoclub.com
E-mail: info@siroccoclub.com


The most beautiful club in the city of Athens. Life strip show till early in the morning. Nice and elegant ladies.

Address: 30, Posseidonos Av., Kallithea
Telephone: +30210-9413089
Web site: www.clubmousses.com
E-mail: mousses@tourtripgreece.gr


     Lolita
 	 The nicest live strip club of Athens. Preaty girls entertain you in a glamourous environmet. Drinks 10 Euro. Open from 22:00 till early morning hours. 
Address: 30, Lagoumitzi str. & Syngrou av.

Aphrodite Palace
 	 Live strip show.Entrance with drink €10, bottle of whiskey €88.
Address: 137, Siggrou ave., Nea Smirni

 Dallas
 	 Live show. Drink price €6.
Address: Filolaou & 29, Ifikratous str., Pagkrati



delhpi :  http://www.booking.com/hotel/gr/pan-delphi.html?aid=347874&label=hotel-97104_Pool-6_Slice-99999&utm_source=tripad&utm_medium=SPPC&utm_content=text-cr&utm_term=hotel-97104&do_availability_check=on&checkin_monthday=04&checkin_year_month=2012-10&checkout_monthday=05&checkout_year_month=2012-10&max_persons=2&lang=en-gb


