Hydra
Hydra Greece is a beautiful island lying in the archipelago called the Argo-Saronic. It is situated in the Greek Islands calles Saronic and lies between the islands of Poros and Spetses, near the coast of the eastern foot of the Peloponnese. It is very popular island because of its extremely picturesque capital, full of red-tiled houses and stone-paved narrow alleys. It used to be the destination of fashionable artists during the sixties and has kept a highly cosmopolitan character. Hydra in Mythology was a nine-headed monster, sister of Medusa.
This section of Hydra Island provides pictures, map, villages, history, museums, architecture and a large range of hotels.

The only village and capital of the island is Hydra Town, known for its traditional architecture with the stone houses and the paved streets. Other settlements on the island include Kaminia and Vlichos, but they are mostly tourist places with plenty of facilities.

1. Hydra town: Town village in Hydra
Hydra Town: Hydra town is the capital and main harbour of the island of Hydra.

It is a wonderful little town, hidden in a small, natural harbour which is only visible from a perpendicular angle. 

The settlement of Hydra Town has been declared to be a traditional and protected settlement, full of beautiful mansions built during the 19th century by wealthy ship owners and merchants.
 	
The traditional houses are standing very close one to another, spreading on two rugged hills, separated between them by narrow whitewashed stone paved streets and alleys. 

They have beautiful tile roofs and bright coloured windows, doors and loggias walls, which add a splash of colour on the ochre and grey thick stone walls. The whole town is a true jewel, unspoiled by any modern architecture or huge hotel complex.

Here the traditional architecture is highly protected and there is a law prohibiting any new construction which is not built according to the traditional and authentic colour and style. Hydra Town is a little oasis where any kind of motorised vehicle is forbidden and where transportation is effectuated by donkey.

During the 17th century, the town centre was in the area of the today old town of Kiafa, which slowly extended, moving down to the seashore. Kiafa is the most populated area, standing high up above the port, with the oldest buildings of the island. The view from the area of Kiafa is really astonishing.

The beautiful three-storey bell-tower of the Church of the Assumption of the Virgin (Kimissis tis Theotokou), one of the oldest building of Hydra (built in 1643), stands in the middle of the capital, overlooking the town. 

An interesting museum and some old mansions are worth-visiting. Souvenir shops and cafes are housed in the old warehouses and in the modest seamen’s houses which line the waterfront. Behind the first row of buildings more shops and cafes can be found, scattered around the whitewashed streets and alleys. 

The main street is called Odos Miaoulis and is extending in a ravine cut into the mountain during prehistoric times by the sea and today boarded by a small stone wall. 

In Hydra Town, visitor will find rooms for rent, small hotels housed in renovated old mansions, shops, banks, pharmacies, a hospital, a police department and all the other needed facilities. The sunsets from the capital of Hydra are astonishing and unforgettable. 

The picturesque and traditional atmosphere of Hydra Town is mixed with a cosmopolitan air and an exiting nightlife, which makes the town a unique place and one of the most beautiful towns of the Aegean.

Things to do :

a. Church Of The Assumption

The Church of the Assumption of the Virgin is located in the port of Hydra Town. Its main characteristic is the tall bell tower made of pure marble from Tinos. The church was established in 1643 and hosts a small ecclesiastical museum today.

b.The Monastery of Agia Efpraxia in Hydra Greece, Saronic: 

The Monastery of Agia Efpraxia is an important religious sight in Hydra Saronic. The monastery was originally built in 1865 and the main church, the katholikon, is actually pretty small and austere in architecture. Few nuns still live in this monastery and take care of the building. They also run a small embroidery workshop. 

The Monastery of Agia Efpraxia is located on top of a hill above the town, at an altitude of 500 m. It is twin to the Monastery of Prophet Elias, which is found in a close distance. Visitors can go to the monastery on foot following a hiking trail from the Town or from Vlihos. The distance is about 40 min on foot from Town.

c.Monastery Of Prophet Elias

Built in the 19th century by monk Ierotheos, on the site of an abandoned monastic community, the Monastery of Prophet Elias is the most visited monastery on Hydra. A male community of four monks lives there. Located on the northern slopes of Mount Klimaki at an altitude of 500 metres, it offers a magnificent view over the town and the sea.

d.The Historical Archives Museum of Hydra Greece, Saronic: 

This museum was established in 1918 and it was housed in an elegant stone mansion that belonged to the local shipowner Gikas Koulouras. In 1996, the building was renovated and today it is the most impressive mansion at the port of Hydra. Next to the entrance, there are some old anchors, signs of the rich nautical impression of the island.

The museum hosts the historical archives that a former major of Hydra, Mr Lignos, found in the Church of Assumption of Virgin Mary. These archives include educational, administrative and religious archives, manuscripts from the Greek Revolution, old books, maps and others. The museum also hosts relics from the Balkans Wars and the two world wars, traditional costumes, carvings, naval instruments and painting works.

e.the Cathedral museum of Hydra:

One of the interesting places that to visit in Hydra, is the Cathedral Museum or the Ecclesiastic Museum. 

This museum is located in the center of the port. This cathedral was originally built in 1648 and was rebuilt in 1774. It also operated as a monastery at one point. Now, the Town Hall as well the museum is located in the temple part of this cathedral. 

This museum has been in existence since 1933. Here, you will find jewels and documents of historical value. Occasionally there are exhibits held that reflects Hydra’s nautical history.
 	


The address for this museum is:
Cloisters of Cathedral of Hydra, 
Hydra Harbor, Hydra, 
Greece, 18040.

There is no phone at this museum. You will just have to drop by to see if it is open or not.

f.Koundouriotis Mansion

This elegant stone mansion is an outhouse of the National Historical Museum. It includes relics of the Koundouriotis family, such as weaponry, traditional clothes, woodcarvings, paintings and jewelry.

g.The Bastions with Cannons: 


On the Greek island of Hydra the bastions with cannons that were used for the protection of the harbor in due time war, can still be seen. During the 18th century, Hydra was in need of these cannons to protect the Island from the attacks of the Turkish fleet. The Greek ships were equipped with eight to twenty guns when on the Turkish frigate had up to eighty guns and a Turkish corvette ship up to thirty.

The Turkish fleet was superior quantitatively to the Greek so Hydra needed its cannons, in case they managed to get past the Greek ships. In the 19th century there was a probability for Hydra to use its cannons again, as the Greeks were at war with the Turks.
 	

Fortunately, the Greek fleet had always managed to protect Hydra, and as a result, the cannons have not been often in use. The bastions with cannons seemed to be a necessary precaution in case Hydra actually got attacked. You can still see them today on the left and right side of the Harbor.

h.
 

Dokos Island, Hydra: Dokos is a small island of the Saronic Gulf, between Hydra, Spetses and the mainland coast of Ermioni Peloponnese. The landscape of the island is rocky and mountainous, while the highest peak is 308m. The island has few water reserves and the land is infertile. 

About 50 permanent inhabitants live today in Dokos and they occupy mostly with agriculture and fishing. Organized tourism is not developed there, but the island is known among nature lovers, hikers and free campers. Beaches in Dokos are small and clean, while the remote landscape is idea for camping.

Many archaeological excavations have been done on Dokos, as apparently the island was an important port in the ancient times. According to findings, Dokos was first inhabited in the 5th millenium B.C., while it flourished in the 3rd millenium B.C. In the antiquity, it was called Aperopia. As the remains of a castle show, this island had a strategic position in the Byzantine times and was used to observe the ships in the Saronic Gulf.
 	

In summer 1975, underwater researcher Peter Throckmorton and archaeologist Giorgos Papathanasopoulos discovered an ancient shipwreck in the sea bottom close to Dokos. This shipwreck was full of ceramics vases and the experts dated it at around 2700-2100 B.C., making it the olderst shipwreck in the world. The findings from the shipwreck were transfered to the Museum of Spetses, where they are preserved. 

On the eastern tip of the island, there is a lighthouse constructed in 1923. This 9m tall lighthouse has the form of a round tower and a focal plane of 23m. You can go to Dokos by water taxi from Hydra, Ermioni or Spetses.

2.Hydra Villages: Kaminia village in Hydra

Kaminia Hydra: The small fishing hamlet of Kaminia is built around a shallow inlet. The quiet Kaminia is reachable on foot via the coastal street of Hydra Town (about 15-20 minutes). 

It is a calmer alternative to Hydra Town, as picturesque and traditional as the capital but without its constant buzz. 

The village doesn’t have any souvenir shop or café, but some excellent taverns that serve amazing fresh fish.
 	
It was built, like the capital, on the slope of the mountain range of Ere, but because of the growth of the settlement, it slowly expanded towards the harbour, almost becoming one with the capital.

The picturesque marina of Kaminia provides the village with fresh fish.

The little village has some grocery shops and a school and from there, visitors can enjoy a superb view over the island of Spetses. 

3.Hydra Villages: Vlicho village in Hydra

Vlichos Hydra: A path from Kaminia leads to the small holiday resort of Vlihos (15 minutes walk) and offers a magnificent view over the Peloponnese coast.

Vlihos can also be reached by taxi-boat from Hydra Town or with a 40 minute walk via the coastal street of the capital. The area consists in holiday homes and new houses built according to the traditional architecture of the 19th century. 
One tavern and one cafe welcome the visitors as well as a large grey pebble beach.





Hydra Restaurants (6)

1.Bratsera in Town, Hydra 
Location: Hydra / Town
Type: Restaurants
Category: Mediterranean
A beautiful restaurant set on the premises of the homonymous hotel n Hydra Town, Bratsera invites you to enjoy a fine seletion of Greek dishes. The tempting menu offers excellent dishes from the Greek and the Mediterranean cuisine. 

Whether you stay at the hotel or not, Bratsera offers to its customers a fantastic culinary experience for breakfast, meal and dinner that you can enjoy by the pool or inside the spacious restaurant, if the weather is chilly. The restaurant organizes wedding receptions and other special events.

2.Castello in Kaminia, Hydra 
Location: Hydra / Kaminia
Type: Restaurants
Category: Mediterranean
The impressive 18th century castle over the beach of Kaminia in Hydra has been renovated and now hosts a lovely cafe-bar and restaurant with magnificent view. This multilevel bar restaurant is set right on the beachfront and serves from breakfasts and light snacks to meals and dinners.

Just a 15-minute walk from the charming town of Hydra, Castello offers an unforgettable dining experience. The chef's typical yet tasty Mediterranean menu will surprise you with all the delights.

3.Kodylenia in Kaminia, Hydra 
Location: Hydra / Kaminia
Type: Restaurants
Category: Taverns
Inside a typical fisherman's house overlooking the charming harbour of Kaminia is Kodylenia, one of the most popular restaurants in Hydra. Kondylenia is an interestingly captivating place with a charming terrace and a perfect natural spot right on the beachfront. 

This lovely building dominates the area of Kaminia with amazing tastes and aromas from the Greek cuisine that make their way around the island. Kodylenia is a popular spot for weddings receptions and special events. The restaurant provides beautiful sea views and authentic dishes.

4.Mira Mare in Mandraki, Hydra 
Location: Hydra / Mandraki
Type: Restaurants
Category: Mediterranean
Mira Mare is a beautiful restaurant located in the attractive bay of Mandraki Hydra and it is part of the well-known hotel. The restaurant offers romantic views to the sea and it is the ideal place to try fresh fish dishes, tempting salads and local recipes. 

Mira Mare appeals to all tastes, while you have the chance to try the highest quality dishes in the most beautiful setting. The dinner is served in unique scenery and you will enjoy the spectacular sunset.

5.Pirofani in Kaminia, Hydra 
Location: Hydra / Kaminia
Type: Restaurants
Category: Taverns
Pirofani is a special place for an authentic culinary experience in Hydra. Set on a beautiful location, just 3 minutes from the harbour of Kamini, the restaurant offers a fantastic assortment of Greek dishes and international flavours. 

Among the specialties is the Pirofani salad made with fresh vegetables, daily fresh fish and meat dishes. It is highly recommended for a delicious dessert and excellent wine. Pirofani provides entertainment with various events from poetry readings to music happenings.

6. Vigla	
Type: Restaurants
From the terrace of Vigla Restaurant you can watch everybody in the living theatre of Hydra where the protagonists are the persons taking their walk on the historical waterfront of Hydra Island

Bars in Hydra


1.Amalour in Town, Hydra 
Location: Hydra / Town
Type: Bars
On the ground floor of an old house in Hydra, you can find Amalour. Set right on the waterfront, this bar-restaurant has become one of the most popular spots in Hydra Town. The bar has excellent service, friendly atmosphere and crowds that can turn a relaxed evening into a lively night. 

It is extremely known among locals and visitors for the great variety of music sounds, like jazz, ethnic, and up tempo. With excellent views to the sea, Amalour is a lovely place for a night out in Hydra.

Hydra Cafe (2) 
1.Pirate	
Type: Cafe
Category: Coffee Bar
Friendly service & tasty daytime menu. Great dance music every night. Exciting club atmosphere. The place to party with friends, and make lots of new ones! We're almost open 24 hours a day in the summer and we're here in the winter too.

2.Sinialo	
Type: Cafe
Sinialo is a stylish cafe facing the port of Hydra. You can relax at the tables outside and watch the boats tie at the port or depart for the neighbouring islands. It serves coffees, drinks, snacks and few traditional desserts. 