Rhodes Town : Rhodes Town in Rhodes, Greece, Dodecanese

The Catholic Churches of Rhodes Greece, Dodecanese: The long occupation of Rhodes by the Venetians and the Italians, from the Middle Ages till 1948, has left its strong mark on the culture of the island. This is depicted in the architecture as well as the many Catholic churches in Rhodes island. Very few of them work today. Hereby we present you the most important Catholic churches in Rhodes. 

1.The church of Our Lady of Victory, known as "Santa Maria" is the most famous Catholic Church on the island. Originally, the

 	
church was destroyed during the Grand Siege in 1522. The church distinguished for its gothic architecture and it was rebuilt in 1742, while it became the official Catholic Church of Rhodes. The building complex includes the Monastery of Franciscans of the Custody of the Holy Land, the pastors of the island and the monastery guesthouse that has been the scope of historical studies and researches. During the 1960s, the church underwent many renovations and reconstruction works. Today, the church is centrally located in the New Town of Rhodes, near the Casino. 

2.The Church of Agios Frangiskos (Saint Francis of Assisi) is the official Latin Church of Rhodes. It is situated next to the Orthodox church of Saint Athanasios. Its construction begun in 1936 and it was completed in 1939. It is dedicated to Agios Frankiskos, a man who fought in many wars and lived a high- spirited life in great poverty. A vision that he saw during a serious illness led him to dedicate his life to charities. He is known as the patron saint of animals. 

The church was designed by the Italian architect Stefano Pellini and has very nice accoustics. It has a unique architecture with white marble. The walls of the chorus depict the three most significant events from the life of Saint Francis. A local craftsman created an iron statue of Saint Francis, at the right side of the church where it stands till today. The statue is surrounded by blackberry bushes, palm trees and animals. The church celebrates on October 4th. 

3. The Chapel of the Holy Cross is located at the entrance of the Catholic Cemetery of Rhodes in Faliraki and it is used mostly for funerals. It is a white church with yellow trimmings built around the 13th century. In its present form, the bell tower is attached to the church building which has a typical cross vaulted roof. Rooms are available for guests who wish to stay overnight. 

4. The Chapel of Saint Anne is a small church located at the beach resort of Trianda, next to a monastery surrounded by a beautiful garden. Henri Masse donated the chapel to the Catholic Church dedicated to the memory of his sister Adelaida. Among the locals, it is known as the church of Santa Anna. Its beachfront location inspires peace and harmony. The church does not work today.

5. The Chapel of the Sacred Heart is situated in the downtown Rhodes, near a busy area and behind a school. The church is housed in a very old building painted with pale yellow. At the front entrance of the church, there is an old bell.

6. Church Of Annunciation
The church of the Annunciation of the Virgin Mary has different style from the usual churches in Greece. It has a gothic architecture and the frescoes inside were painted by Fotis Kontoglou, a renowned Greek painter.

7. Holy Trinity
The church of the Holy Trinity is located along Knights street. It dates from the 15th century and it is one of the loveliest churches in Rhodes Town.

8.Rhodes Park: The Rodini Park of Rhodes, Dodecanese
 
Rodini Park of Rhodes: The impeccably landscaped Rodini Park is renowned for its cool and tranquil atmosphere. This beautiful park is ideally located just outskirts of the town. It is a mere 3 Kms away from the city center of Rhodes. The park is replete with trees like Cypress and Pine. There is also a swift flowing stream in close proximity to the park.If there are children accompanying you, there is an exclusive playground for the young ones as well as a mini Zoo. 

The Rodini Park has the unique distinction of being the world's first landscaped park. This park was very popular with the Romans and they even built an aqueduct here. Inside the park's premises, there are peacocks galore that are residents of the park. There is a well-defined walkway that extends all the way to the stream. 

For the energetic ones, a 10 minutes walk is all it takes to be face to face with an ancient tomb which is believed to be the tomb of Ptolemies which has been dug into the rock. The tomb dates back to the Hellenistic period and is conspicuous by 21 half columns that are distinctly Doric in terms of architecture.


9.The Aquarium of Rhodes: The Aquarium of Rhodes is housed in the building of the Hydrobiological Station, within the limits of Rhodes city. The building was constructed in 1934-36, during the Italian occupation, to house the Institute of Biological Research. After the liberation of the Dodecanese islands, it was named as the Greek Hydrobiological Institute and also included an aquarium and a museum. 

The aim of the Aquarium is to present and preserve the species of the Mediterranean Sea. It constitutes of a circular area with 13 big tanks and 15 small ones.
 	

Fish and organisms from the Mediterranean are selected anddisplayed there in public view. The tanks are made of cement and their bottoms are covered with sand, shingles and corals. The water in the tanks is mainly filtered sea water. 

These tanks host different kinds of sea species, such as sea turtles, dolphins, sharps, seals, mollusks, echinoderms, crabs and many kinds of fish. Apart from these tanks, there is also a big underground area that serves for stocking new species or sea animals that need special treatment and protection. This place is frequently used to hospitalize sea turtles and seals from the nearby waters.

The museum displays embalmed sea species, like dolphins, sea turtles and sharks that are certainly worth to visit. The Hydrobiological Station of Rhodes runs today a lot of research on the oceanography of the Dodecanese islands and works as a model research unit in the Mediterranean area.


10.The Archaeological Museum of Rhodes Dodecanese, Greece: The Archaeological Museum is located in the Old Town of Rhodes. It is housed in the Medieval building of the Hospital of the Knights, in the Palace of the Grand Master. The construction of this building began in 1440 by Grand Master de Lastic and it was completed in 1948 by Grand Master d'Aubusson. The building was renovated in the early 20th century by the Italians, as was the whole Medieval Town of Rhodes.
 	
 The Archaeological Museum contains today findings from excavations all over the island and some small islets of Dodecanese. Visitors can see a collection of vases, figurines, small objects and tomb groups from were found in Ancient Ialysos and Ancient Kameiros and date from the Geometric till the Roman times. There are also mosaic floors from the Hellenistic times and funerary slabs of the Knights. 


11.The Palace of Grand Masters in Rhodes: 
The Palace of Grand Masters is ideally located at the end of the Street of the Knights. It is conspicuous by its spherical towers as well as a gate with a sharp arch. The Palace of Grand Masters is a citadel which was built by the Knights of St John in the 14th century. The palace boasts of numerous grandiose rooms with antique furniture, exquisite polychrome marbles, sculptures, carpets and fine Oriental vases.

Among the most important rooms are the grand Reception Hall,the Waiting Room, the Medusa mosaic, the exclusive room of 
the icons, the impressive ballroom, the elegant music room, etc… to name just a few.
 	

In total there are a staggering 158 rooms but only 24 of them are open to visitors. The Palace of the Grand Masters was extensively restored in the period between 1937-40 under the stewardship of renowned Italian architect – Vittorio Mesturino. Of special significance are the frescos by renowned artists of the stature of P. Gaudenzi and F.Vellan. 


12.Acropolis of Rhodes: In the past the Acropolis of Rhodes overlooked the western part of the city. It was not Unlike most other ancient acropolis, this one wasn’t fortified. The Acropolis of Rhodes was replete with Sanctuaries, huge temple premises and public buildings. The buildings were strategically built on precipitous terraces that were ably supported by impregnable walls. The Acropolis of Rhodes is one of the finest specimens of Hellenic style of architecture that blended harmoniously with the surrounding environment. 

The renowned Italian Archaeological School was entrusted with the work of excavating the Acropolis during the period from 1912 – 1945. But, from the year 1946 the Greek Archaeological Service carried out excavations that provided fascinating insight to the history and topography of the Acropolis.
 	

The entire Acropolis is yet to be excavated. An exclusive 
archaeological zone which is all of 12,500 m² has been segregated from contemporary edifices with the primary goal of carrying out long term excavation works that surely is going to provide fascinating insight of the Old City of Rhodes. Some of the significant monuments discovered by archaeologists in the core archaeological zone are mentioned below in brief:

Temple of Athena Polias and Zeus Polieus:
Temple of Athena Polias and Zeus Polieus are located to the northern extreme of the Acropolis. They are distinctly Doric in terms of architecture and are conspicuous by their porticos on all sides. There are four massive column drums as well. It is here that the Rhodians preserved their treaties with other states.

Nymphaia: 
The Nymphaia is located to the east and comprises of four cavernous constructions that have been innovatively cut into the rock and is conspicuous with entrance steps, passages and a large aperture in the innermost part of the roof. The Nymphaia is replete with water cisterns and luxuriant foliage. In the past the Nymphaia was meant for worship and recreation. 

Odeion:
The odeion is located to the Northwest of the Stadium. It had a capacity to accommodate 800 spectators and archaeologists are of the opinion that the Odeion was used for musical performances or for conducting classes in rhetoric. 

Temple of Pythian Apollo:
The Temple of Pythian Apollo stands majestically to the 
southern part of the hill. This temple is much smaller in size when compared to other temples that have been found in the site. The North Eastern part of this temples has undergone restoration work. 

Stoa Building: 
The Stoa Building had an impressive facade that was visible from the lower town as well as the harbor. Artemision:
The Artemision is located to the Northeastern side and happened to be the place of worship of the Artemis cult. 

Stadium: 
The Stadium is located to the Southeastern part of the hill and was excavated by the Italians during their rule of the island of Rhodes. The stadium was all of 600 feet in length. At present the only original components are the “Sphendone”, “Proedries” and a few rows of seats in the auditorium. Also preserved is The starting apparatus used in athletic events too is well preserved.

Gymnasium: 
The Gymnasium is ideally located to the east of the stadium. Excavators were able to unearth a part of the western side of the Gymnasium. In recent times, the Northeastern part of the Gymnasium too was excavated by a team of archaeologists. The Gymnasium was basically a massive square shaped edifice and archaeologists have been able to unearth significant art works from the site.

Library: 
The Library in the past used to be well stocked with priceless works of Rhetoric. It was located in close proximity to the Odeion and the Gymnasium.
 

13.Lindos Rhodes: 
The lovely village of Lindos is one of the most attractive and beautiful villages of Rhodes, and is located south of the capital, on the eastern coast of the island. 

It is dominated by a magnificent and imposing acropolis which can be visited. 

The beauty of Lindos is due to its beautiful location on the slope of a hill, dominated by the acropolis, and overlooking a picturesque bay, but also to the village itself which has been
 	
built amphitheatrically and is full of whitewashed houses with pebble-paved courtyards, narrow alleys and buildings influenced by Byzantine, medieval, Arab and Rhodian architecture.

Apart from the beautiful acropolis that can be reached by foot or donkey, the old theatre of Lindos, carved from a rock, and the Doric sanctuary of Athena Lindia are also worth-seeing. 

Various accommodations of all categories as well as taverns, cafes and romantic bars can be found in the enchanting Lindos.


14.The site of Ancient Lindos in Rhodes: 
The ancient town of Lindos, 45 km to the south of Rhodes town, was founded by the Dorians in the 10th century B.C. In the 8th century, it already was a major trading centre, due to its geographical position between Greece and the Middle East. However, it started to decline when the city of Rhodes was founded, in the 5th century. 

The archaeological remains found on the Acropolis of Lindos reveal the wealth of the ancient town. There is a Doric 4th-century temple devoted to Athena Lindia, where people used to worship their patron goddess with offerings and sacrifices. It was built on the remains of another temple.
 	

The Propylaea (the gateways) of the Sanctuary consist of a staircase and five door openings. You will have the chance to see the relief of an ancient warship, called trireme, at the foot of the staircase. Apart from these, there is also a Roman temple dedicated to the emperor Diocletian and a Hellenistic wall that surrounds the Acropolis. 

All these ancient sites are protected by a Medieval Castle, built in the early 14th century by the Knights of St John. Two towers of the castle are well-preserved till today. Outside the castle, on the southwest side of the will, there used to be an ancient theatre. Today the only remains of it are some rows of seats, part of the auditorium. It is believed that the theatre could host 1,800 spectators. 

The excavations in the archaeological site of Lindos started in the early 20th century. The Italians, who occupied Rhodes island from 1912-1945, tried to restore the ancient findings but they actually damaged part of them. The site today belongs to the Greek Ministry of Culture and much work is being done, by both Greek and foreign archaeologists, to protect this monument. 

15.Rhodes Beaches: Lindos Limanaki Agios Pavlos Beach

Lindos Limanaki Agios Pavlos beach Rhodes: The little bay of Agios Pavlos (Saint Paul) is lying south of the acropolis of Lindos and at a very close distance by foot from the village of Lindos, 50 kilometres south-east from the City of Rhodes. A local legend explains that this bay owes its name to the fact that Saint Paul came here in 43 AD to preach Christianity; the lovely white chapel standing on the beach is dedicated to Saint Paul. Golden sand and pebbles compose the beach where sun beds are available for rent. Rocks are boarding the beach, giving the possibility to dive into the clean turquoise waters.

16.Rhodes Beaches: Ladiko Beach in Rhodes

Ladiko beach Rhodes: Ladiko is a small beach located on a beautiful bay 15km from Rhodes Town and 2km from Faliraki village. Ladiko beach features a tiny picturesque cove which can offer the visitor a beautiful day in the sun. The seashore has fine clean sand, with some small rocks scattered all around and many beach facilities, such as umbrellas, sun beds, fresh water showers and delicious traditional taverns. 

Ladiko beach tends to get particularly crowded in summer. This cove usually presents a beautiful picture, with small boats sailing near the shore. Lush green vegetation surrounds the beach and creates nice scenery.

17.Rhodes beaches: Kallithea beach in Rhodes

Kallithea Beach Rhodes: The beach of Kallithea is famous for its hot medicinal springs which were built by the Italians but no longer function. It is a wonderful place with palm and pine trees and buildings (the springs) influenced by the Arabic architecture with its magnificent mosaics, and are under renovation. The emerald waters of the sea match perfectly with this idyllic scenery, adding one more touch of beauty to the whole picture. Kallithea is at a short distance from the City of Rhodes.


18.Rhodes Beaches: Tsambika Beach in Rhodes

Tsambika beach Rhodes: The long sandy beach of Tsampika is located 26 kilometres south-east of the capital of Rhodes, under the imposing rock where stands the miraculous monastery of Tsampika, from where the area took its name.

Turquoise waters and golden sands create a beautiful scenery, ideal to relax and enjoy the sun. Water sports are available on Tsampika as well as a mini-market, right next to the bus stop.


19.Rhodes Beaches: Afandou Beach in Rhodes

Afandou Rhodes: The extremely long and large beach of Afandou is 22 kilometres south-east from the City of Rhodes, in front of the village of the same name where visitors can practice golf at the golf course of the village. 

The beach is made of sand and pebbles and doesn’t have any facilities or rentals which make it less crowded than other beaches of Rhodes. Its deep, clear sparkling waters are ideal for swimming and remain quite fresh even under the hot sun.
 	
Some fine taverns can be found nearby the beach and, in the village, visitors will find even more taverns and all kinds of accommodations.
 

20.Rhodes Beaches: Ixia beach in Rhodes

Ixia beach Rhodes: Ixia is located at the northern part of the western coast of Rhodes and it is situated very close to the romantic town of Rhodes, in a 4km distance. It is a nice cosmopolitan resort that is mostly referred to as one of the most beautiful places in the island. Its geographical position is important creating the ideal circumstances for the surfers to enjoy their favourite water sport. 

During the last few years, the area has developed into an international destination that attracts a lot of visitors, while it offers various types of accommodation from luxury hotels to apartments and rooms to let. Ixia village has delicious restaurants and traditional taverns to choose and many bars where you can have a drink.
 	
5 km away from Ixia, there is the Old Town of Rhodes. It is a busy neighborhood, a living monument actually, with thousands of inhabitants who live and work in the medieval castles that the town is famous for and one must definitely see.


21.Rhodes Beaches: Prassonissi Beach in Rhodes

Prassonissi Rhodes: The long and large sandy beach of Prassonissi is lying on the southernmost tip of Rhodes, 92 kilometres south from the capital of the island and 40 kilometres south-west from the village of Lindos. Prassonissi is the paradise for windsurfers, particularly during the months of July and August, when the north winds called meltemi are blowing.

The beach consists in two sandy coves which are ending in an island which can be reached by foot or swimming, depending on the level of the waters. Windsurfing equipments are available for rent, even if most surfers bring their own material. Taverns and rooms for rent can be found nearby the beach. The landscape is idyllic and the waters amazingly crystalline.


22.The Monastery of Filerimos in Rhodes Greece: The Monastery of Panagia Filerimos is located on a hill above Ialyssos, about 10 km from Rhodes Town. The monastery is dedicated to Virgin Mary the Life-Giving Source (Zoodochos Pighi) and its architecture is much different than the usual monasteries in Greece. It was constructed of stone in a Gothic style, on the site of an older Byzantine monastery. 

The monastery was built in the 15th century by the Knights of Saint John, who had conquered the island that time. Inside, there was the holy icon of the Virgin Mary that the Knights had probably brought to Rhodes from Jerusalem. When the Ottomans conquered the island in 1523, the Knights left and took the icon with them. After floating in Italy, Malta, France and Russia, this icon is today hosted in the National Museum of Montenegro.
 	

 In the region around the monastery, there are the ruins of a baptistery in the shape of a cross, the remains of Ancient Ialysos and an underground church of Saint George that dates from the 14th century AD. From Filerimos Monastery also starts the path to Golgothas. On top of this path, up on a hill with amazing view, there is a huge cross, while on the one side of the path, there are engravings that represent the Passion of the Christ.

23.Rhodes Waterpark: The Waterpark of Faliraki in Rhodes, Dodecanese, Greece
 
  
Faliraki Waterpark in Rhodes: The biggest water park in Europe, Faliraki Water Park is open from May to October. It is a wonderful park equipped with all the amenities and games. Here, you will find various activities and rides such as Kamikaze slides, a Pirate ship just waiting to be explored, wave pools, lazy rivers, black holes and so much more. While you enjoy the water games, experienced lifeguards watch for your safety. There are also medical technicians to have a solarium. 

The park is open from 9.30 in the morning till 7 o'clock in the evening. It can be found at the beach of Faliraki and there are buses of the Water Park to transport you from Rhodes town to Faliraki and back. There is also a huge parking space outside the water park. Pets are not allowed in the park, which also has snack bars, souvenir shop and showers.


24.Rhodes Beaches: Faliraki Beach in Rhodes

Faliraki beach Rhodes: The beach resort of Faliraki is the most developed of the island and one of the most cosmopolitan spots of Rhodes. It lies on the north-eastern part of Rhodes, 14 kilometres from the capital of the island and 10 kilometres from the airport. 

The beach of Faliraki is one of the most organised beaches of Rhodes, offering sun beds, umbrellas, many water sports (water skiing, wind surfing and much more), taverns, restaurants and beach bars.
 	
The golden sands of Faliraki extend over 4 kilometres and, along with the crystalline blue waters of the Aegean, create a relaxing and attractive picture. 

For those who wish to be in a more quiet and less crowded environment, the bay of Kathara is just the right place. It is situated next to Faliraki Beach, near the small fishing harbour. The whole area is full of luxurious hotels and other kinds of accommodations.


25.Rhodes Beaches: Agathi Beach in Rhodes

Rhodes Agathi: The small sandy beach of Agathi lies on a picturesque cove, nearby the beach of Haraki and the medieval castle of Faraklos, 38 kilometres south-east of Rhodes City and 10 kilometres from the village of Lindos. 

The golden sands, along with the emerald waters, create a wonderful and attractive picture. Three Canteens offer refreshments and snacks on the beach as well as sun beds, umbrellas rentals and showers.

26.Rhodes beaches: Akti Miaouli Beach in Rhodes

Akti Miaouli Rhodes: Akti Miaouli beach is situated in the limits of Rhodes town and is covered by grey pebbles. It is not a particularly wide beach, just a strip of land, but it is well-organized with sun beds, showers and changing rooms. 

The beach can be accessed on foot, as it is just within a walking distance from the city centre. Many car rental agencies and hotels are located close to Akti Miaouli beach, which turn it really convenient for tourists.


26.Rhodes Beaches: Elli Beach in Rhodes

Elli Beach Rhodes: Elli is the main beach in Rhodes town. It is located in the southern most end of the city between the area of Mandraki and the Rhodes Aquarium. It is one of the most popular beaches on Dodecanese and according to Lawrence Durell it is the most beautiful beach in the Mediterranean. 

Elli beach offers you all the amenities to enjoy a fine day in the sun. It is organized, full with colorful umbrellas and rented sundecks, beachfront taverns and comfortable restaurants as well as lovely hotels with safe pools to play the children while you enjoy a drink. The place has an amazing atmosphere that attracts a lot of photographers to immortalize the astonishing grafts and the most wonderful panoramic image of Rhodes.

 	
Elli beach features a choice of water sports, diving or even beach volley. If you want a pleasant break from the sun, take a walk around the town of Rhodes, enjoy the Greek dishes in the friendly taverns and live the luxury of the Turkish market.
 

27.Rhodes Beaches: Faliraki Nudist Beach in Rhodes
	Faliraki Nudist beach Rhodes: The beach resort of Faliraki is the most developed of the island and one of the most cosmopolitan spots of Rhodes.

It lies on the north-eastern part of Rhodes, 14 kilometres from the capital of the island and 10 kilometres from the airport. The beach of Faliraki is one of the most organised beaches of Rhodes, offering sun beds, umbrellas, many water sports (water skiing, wind surfing and much more), taverns, restaurants and beach bars.
 	
The golden sands of Faliraki extend over 4 kilometres and, along with the crystalline blue waters of the Aegean, create a relaxing and attractive picture. 

For those who wish to be in a more quiet and less crowded environment, the bay of Kathara (Clean) is just the right place.

It is situated right next to Faliraki Beach, near the small fishing harbour. All the area is full of luxurious hotels and other kinds of accommodations.
 
28.Rhodes Beaches: Ialyssos Beach in Rhodes

Ialyssos beach Rhodes: The long beach of Ialysos is placed 8 km to the north west of Rhodes town. Its waters are crystal and it is well organized as a tourist resort with many facilities, including close accommodation options, seaside cafes and taverns. The coastline has sand and pebbles. The beach of Ialysos develops an important role in the Greek surfing scene and is visited by many surfers in summer, since its winds favors this sport. In fact, some freestyle competitions are held in Ialysos beach, such as the European Windsurfing Championship.


29.

Rhodes beaches: Kamiros beach in Rhodes

Kamiros Beach Rhodes: Kamiros beach is located 50 km away from the town of Rhodes in a 45 minute distance drive, concluding to a lovely route with dotted small villages, green forests and old monasteries. Kamiros beach is blessed with golden sand and the crystal clear waters. 

There are many umbrellas and sundecks you could rent to enjoy the beautiful scenery and relax under the shade. There is only one restaurant near the beach, though the region has several options such as cafes and great taverns. The area of Kameiros has also a great archaeological interest with several monuments which date back in 3rd century. From the small port of Kamiros, excursion boats depart daily for the remote islet of Alinda and the small island of Halki.

30.Rhodes Beaches: Lindos Megali Paralia Beach in Rhodes

Lindos Megali Paralia beach Rhodes: A large beach in a walking distance from the picturesque village of Lindos, Magali Paralia is a fully organized place with sunbeds, umbrellas, fish taverns and some watersports. 

The golden sand and the clean water amaze visitors. The environment has sparse vegetation and high hills, while at the background people can see the amphitheatrically built village of Lindos and the Acropolis on top of the mountain.

31.Rhodes Beaches: Lindos Palace Beach in Rhodes

Lindos Palace beach Rhodes: Lindos beach palace is one of the three beaches surrounding Lindos town and one of the most popular beaches on Rhodes island. 

It is placed 55 km from Rhodes city and it is a great location for families, due to its ambience and its many available facilities. 

Apart from sun-beds and umbrellas, Lindos beach palace has a variety of hotels on its surroundings. Lindos town is within a walking distance.
 	
The beach has both sand and pebbles and its waters are crystal blue and quite shallow, ideal for swimming and diving. Its family profile makes it a little crowded in high seasons, but still remains beautiful and enjoyable.

32.Rhodes Beaces: Pefki beach in Rhodes

Pefki beach Rhodes: The Pefki beach is an overtly commercialized beach and the main street is lined up with innumerable shops, establishments, bars and tavernas to cater to the exacting needs of the discerning international traveler. 

The peripheral areas surrounding the beach has been developed in such a manner so as to provide all the contemporary tourist amenities. The Pefki beach has soft sand and is pebbled. Also, it is quite narrow in comparison to other beaches of the island.
 	
A series of narrow pathways leads one to the picturesque beach front. There is no dearth of sun loungers at the beach. At the extreme end of the beach one can find numerous rocky coves with which is ideal for swimming as the water here is shallow. 

The Beach tavernas are great places to indulge in a variety of fresh seafood delicacies. The Pefki beach can be reached either by bus or hired taxi from the principal town of Rhodes. Buses from Rhodes operate at an interval of every half an hour.


33.Rhodes Beaches: Vlicha Beach in Rhodes

Vlicha beach Rhodes: The scenic Vlicha beach is located at a distance of 47 Kms from the town of Rhodes. On any given day, one can see groups of children fully absorbed in sand games while the elderly lot have a whale of a time by the beachfront. 

Vlicha is a charming little beach and there is no dearth of sun loungers at this superb beach. The sea here grows deeper progressively. The best part about this beach is that it is never too crowded.
 	
The Vlicha beach is much preferred by the residents of neighboring Lindos who come top find solace away from the hum drum of Lindos. On the slopes around, and at the centre of the seafront, standSome of the largest hotels in this part of the world are located along the slopes of the Vlicha beach. If you prefer silence and isolation, you would do well to venture to the extreme right hand side of the beach. Here you will also find two small but cozy eating joints. Ther is provision for toilets as well as a fully operational telephone booth.


Tours

1. Lindos by Boat


This is surely the best way to see the jewel in the island's crown. Heading off from Mandraki harbour, enjoy a leisurely sail down the coast to this stunningly beautiful town enjoying wonderful views over its harbour and whitewashed houses as you approach. Once ashore you'll have several hours to take in its sights.
Experience Includes
Return boat ride to Lindos
3 hours free time to explore the UNESCO World Heritage Town
20-minute swimming stop at Tsambika Beach or Stegna (weather permitting)
Hotel pick up and drop off from major resorts in the north of Rhodes
English-speaking escort

Overview
Depart from Mandraki Harbour at 9.00am and enjoy a leisurely 2 hour sail down the coast to this UNESCO World Heritage Town, enjoying wonderful views over its harbour and whitewashed houses as you approach. 

The lovely village of Lindos is one of the most attractive and beautiful villages of Rhodes. Set on the slope of a hill, it is dominated by the acropolis and overlooks a picturesque bay. Here you will find whitewashed houses with pebble-paved courtyards, narrow alleys and buildings influenced by Byzantine, medieval, Arab and Rhodian architecture.

Once in Lindos, you are free time to explore at your own pace. Wander through the narrow, picturesque streets of the town, perhaps indulging in some shopping at the various shops, or enjoy the local cafés and tavernas. Attractions include the beautiful acropolis (€6 per person entrance fee, payable locally) that can be reached by foot or donkey, the old theatre of Lindos, carved from a rock, and the Doric sanctuary of Athena Lindia.

At around 2.30pm, the tour departs to Lindos and heads to Tsambika Beach or Stegna for a short swimming stop (subject to weather) before heading back to Mandraki Harbour and on to your hotel. 

PLEASE NOTE: This tour is only available from the following resorts in the North of Rhodes: Tholos,Trianta, Ixia, Rhodes Town, Kalithea, Faliraki and Afantou.

Details
Departure Location:
This tour picks up from the following resorts: Tholos,Trianta, Ixia, Rhodes Town, Kalithea, Faliraki and Afantou
Departs:
Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays from 25 May to 10 October.
Start Times:
9.00am; pick-ups commence up to 90 minutes before the tour departure time. You will be informed of your pick up time upon re-confirmation of your booking.
Duration:
Around 8 hours including 3 hours in Lindos.
Experience Exclusions
Optional gratuities
Refreshments
Acropoils entrance fee (€6 per person entrance fee, payable locally)
 

Dress Code/What to Bring
A comfortable pair of shoes is recommended. Don't forget your swimming costume if you wish to go for a swim.

Additional Information
You will be collected you from your accommodation or nearest pick up point if it is not possible to pick-up from your hotel. 

Adult £28.00
Child (2 - 11 years) £14.00

http://www.dosomethingdifferent.com/experiences/lindos_by_boat

2.Rhodes Underwater Safari Tour

Experience a magical undersea world in waters around the island of Rhodes. Spend the day diving in the Kallithea Bay’s shallow waters, among colourful fish, keeping an eye out for octopus or even barracuda. Non divers are also welcome on this day trip you can snorkel or swim in crystal clear waters or simply bask in the sun. 
Experience Includes
Boat trip to the beautiful Bay of Kallithea where you can dive, swim and snorkel.
Use of diving equipment
Hotel pick up and drop off from major resorts in the north and south of Rhodes
English-speaking escort
Air-conditioned transportation

Overview
Your trip begins with hotel pick-up followed by a bus ride to Mandraki harbour where you board a dive boat for the short 45-minute sailing to the beautiful Bay of Kallithea. The boat is fully equipped with the latest machines for deep sea diving, and all measures have been taken so as to insure the safety of customers. The boat also has an underwater photo and video service and sandwiches and drinks can be purchased on board.

On arrival in Kalithea Bay, experience the thrills of scuba diving in the crystalline waters. Swim among schools of colourful fish and take in the beauty of the underwater world in this full-day aquatic adventure.

Those who have purchased a non-diver ticket can swim or snorkel in the turquoise waters of the bay or bask in the sun.

Details
Departure Location:
This tour picks up from the following resorts: Tholos, Trianta, Ixia, Rhodes Town, Kalithea, Faliraki, Kolymbia, Lindos, Lardos and Kiotari.
Departs:
Thursdays 25 May to 10 October.
Start Times:
9.00am. Hotel pick-ups commence up to 90 minutes before the scheduled departure time. Your exact pick-up time will be advised when you reconfirm locally.
Duration:
Around 8 hours.
Experience Exclusions
Refreshments – these can be purchased on board the boat
Optional gratuities
Dress Code/What to Bring
Casual. Don’t forget your swimming costume, towel and sun cream. A bottle of water is also recommended.

Additional Information
Please note: For diving you need to be a minimum of 10 years old – for snorkelling you need to be a minimum of 8 years old.

You will be collected you from your accommodation or nearest pick up point if it is not possible to pick-up from your hotel.

Diver(from 11 years) £46.00
Non Diver (Adult) £30.00
Non Diver (Child) (2 - 11 years) £15.00
http://www.dosomethingdifferent.com/experiences/rhodes_underwater_safari_tour_


3.Sunshine Cruise from the North


Gently cruise along the turquoise blue waters of the island’s east coast on this relaxing boat trip which combines numerous stops on golden beaches for swimming and with plenty of time to bask in the sun and top up the tan. A barbecue lunch rounds off this first class trip.
Experience Includes
Leisurely boat cruise along the East coast of the Island
Swimming breaks at numerous beaches along the way
Barbecue Lunch
Hotel pick up and drop off from major resorts in the north of Rhodes
English-speaking escort
Overview
After you’ve joined your boat and the crew hoists the anchor, you’ll sail out from port into the open seas and bob gently along the island’s east coast. You’ll pass by golden beaches, hidden bays and harbour ports, so it’s worth keeping your camera ready to record the views. Or simply sit back on deck, slap on the sun lotion and brush up your tan as the sea breezes waft over you. After a while, you’ll moor in a picturesque bay, where you’ll get some time free to sunbathe on the beach or take a swim or snorkel. And along the way, your crew will sizzle up a barbecue lunch for everyone to dig into. After that, it’s time to sail back to port, giving you even more opportunity to take in more of the seascapes and relax in the sunshine.

Your boat will visit the following beaches (timings are approximate and depend on local weather conditions):

Anthony Quinn Bay – 15 minutes
Tsambika Beach – 30 minutes
Stegna Beach - 2.5 hours
Afandou Beach – 20 minutes
Kallithea Beach – 20 minutes
PLEASE NOTE: This tour is only available from the following resorts in the North of Rhodes: Tholos, Trianta, Ixia, Rhodes Town, Kalithea, Faliraki and Afantou.

Details
Departure Location:
This tour picks up from the following resorts: Tholos, Trianta, Ixia, Rhodes Town, Kalithea, Faliraki and Afantou.
Departs:
Sundays 25 May to 10 October.
Start Times:
9.00am. Hotel pick-ups commence up to 90 minutes before the scheduled departure time. Your exact pick-up time will be advised when you reconfirm locally.
Duration:
Around 8 hours.
Experience Exclusions
Optional gratuities
Dress Code/What to Bring
Casual. Don’t forget your swimming costume, towel sunscreen and hat.

Additional Information
You will be collected you from your accommodation or nearest pick up point if it is not possible to pick-up from your hotel.

Adult £37.00
Child (2 - 11 years) £20.00

4.Symi Island Tour from Rhodes



Fancy a spot of island hopping? Then set sail for the island of Symi, one of the most stunningly beautiful of all the Greek Islands. 
Experience Includes
Boat Cruise to Symi and Panormitis
Free time to explore both islands, shop or take a swim in the crystal clear sea
Hotel pick up and drop off from major resorts in the north and south of Rhodes
Overview
After being picked-up from your hotel, you will be met to Rhodes Harbour for the 2 hour boat trip to Symi, one of the most beautiful picture-postcard Venetian villages with neo classical white and pastel yellow houses.

Tranquil Symi lies just 23 miles north of Rhodes, nestling inside a claw that juts out from Turkey, its nearest neighbour, less than 4 miles across the sea. Symi town lies at the end of a deep-water harbour - its pastel coloured houses spill down the steep hillside from Chorio - the high town, dominated by a church - and spread around the harbour area of Yialos, making an open circle of light reflected in the deepest blue of the harbour. It is as near perfect a setting as can be imagined.  There are some excellent shops selling herbs, sponges, traditional rugs, pottery and jewellery. Once you arrive a Symi, you are free to explore the island at your own leisure for around 3 hours.

After lunch the boat sets sail for Panormitis, hereyou have around an hour to see the Monastery of St. Michael, swimming and sunbathing before returning to Rhodes.


Details
Departs:
Mondays and Thursdays from 25 May to to 10 October.
Start Times:
9.00am. Hotel pick-ups commence up to 90 minutes before the sheduled departure time. You will be informed of your pick up time upon re-confirmation of your booking.
Duration:
Around 9 hours.
Hotel Pick up:
This tour picks up from the following resorts: Tholos, Trianta, Ixia, Rhodes Town, Kalithea, Faliraki, Kolymbia, Lindos, Lardos and Kiotari.
Experience Exclusions
Optional gratuities
Lunch
Dress Code/What to Bring
Casual. A comfortable pair of shoes is recommended. Don’t forget your swimming costume, towel and sun cream.

Additional Information
You will be collected you from your accommodation or nearest pick up point if it is not possible to pick-up from your hotel. 

Adult £35.00
Child (2 - 11 years) £17.00





SANTORINI HELICOPTER SIGHTSEEING TOURS

 

Santorini Caldera tour

flight time: 10min

70€ per person - 3 pax minimum

 

Santorini Caldera & South coast Tour

flight time: 20min

120€ per person  - 3 pax minimum

 

Santorini Grand Tour

flight time: 30min

150€ per person - 3 pax minimum


http://www.abi.gr/en/content/169-helicopter-price-list-based-paros
