Things to do
1. Oia
Oia Santorini: Oia, pronounced ‘Ia’, is the most famous of all villages of Santorini. It is known throughout the world for its quiet life and fantastic sunset, and is certainly the most beautiful and picturesque village of Santorini.
The village is also situated on top of an impressive cliff and offers a spectacular view over the volcano of Palia and Nea Kameni and the island of Thirassia.
Oia is situated on the north of the island, 11 km away from Fira. 
It is a traditional village with charming houses in narrow streets, blue domed churches, and sun-bathed verandas. Its streets have plenty of tourist shops, taverns, cafés, and other shops. 
Oia has several cultural attractions like the Maritime Museum which houses a small library, items from the maritime life of the area, and the vestiges of a Venetian fortress.
Many artists fell in love with the area and settled there. For that reason, the village of Oia has many art galleries.
Oia also has a small port, Ammoudi, which can be reached by a set of 300 steps leading down. There, small boats can take you opposite, to the island of Thirassia. The beach of Armenis is also located there. Taverns in Oia offer visitors tasty meals of fresh fish.


2. Fira
Fira Santorini: Fira is the capital of Santorini, Greece, and the most important of all villages. It is located at the west side of the island and 10 km away from the main port, Athinios.
Fira has a 1.600 constant inhabitants.
Fira has a constant 1,600 inhabitants. It is perched on the edge of an impressive cliff, at a height of 260 meters and offers a great panoramic view of the submerged volcano. 
In 1956, the island of Santorini was hit by an earthquake that destroyed a large part of the island. In Fira, a part of the town was destroyed, but luckily, some of the 18th century buildings were saved.
The town of Fira is a typical Cycladic village made of charming white houses with blue windows and doors, separated from each other by small paved streets. Many of its beautiful buildings were constructed back in the times of the Venetian invasion, including some blue domed churches and sun-bathed verandas that offer an incredible view of the volcano and the sunset.
In our days, Fira is a busy town. During summer and in its high season, the central streets are crowded and filled with all kind of shops, jewelleries, restaurants, cafés, bars and night clubs.
Despite all the tourist traffic concentrated in town, many areas are always quiet. One can find places to relax and enjoy a great view of the island and the surrounding area.
For those in search of a knowing better the culture of the island, an Archaeological Museum museum hosting many items from excavations done in the ancient Minoan settlement of Akrotiri can be visited in the town of Fira The town also has many churches and monasteries such as Agios Minas, the cathedral of Hypapandi, the cathedral of Christ, the monastery of Panagia ton Dominikanidon, Panagia tou Rodariou and the Catholic Cathedral.
There is also the Megaron Gyzi Museum which has a fascinating collection of photos of Fira before and after the earthquake of 1956.
Fira also has a port that was, for many years, the main port of Santorini. Today, this port is only used for cruise boats. From there, boats can take visitors for a tour of the volcano of Nea and Palia Kameni



3.Firostefani Santorini:
Firostefani lies to the north of Fira and there is little that separates it from it considerable larger neighbour. As with Fira the views from this part of Santorini are spectacular but the town are higher up so offer a different perspective of the volcano.
And of course one can enjoy the magnificent sight of Fira itself. It is a superb place to enjoy the sunset in the evening.
The village have restaurants from which one can also observe the sunset in its full glory. 
Between the village of Firostefani and Imerovigli lies the Agios Nikolas Monastry.
The largeish building with its typically Cycladic rounded edges is open 8-12.30 and 16:00-19:00. Depending where you are inside you can look to the east side of the island or to the volcano and beyond.
As with Fira, Firostefani contain a number of hotels. Both are picturesque and have a nice blend of cream and white variations in the colouring of the houses. Away from the cliff side view Firostefani has a less stunning part as well. There are a few shops.


4.Imerovigli Santorini: 
Immerovigli is a picturesque village situated at the north of Santorini, only 2 km away from the capital of Fira. Actually, it is the extension of Fira, but the village is situated on a higher cliff.
The name of Immerovigli comes from the word “vigla,” which means “day”.
The position of the village provides a great view of the area, and allowed villagers to see approaching pirate ships. Today, Immerovigli is a charming and quiet village.
The area has many hotels and typical houses. There are also some nice taverns.
In front of Immerovigli lies an enormous rock called Scaros. Scaros is part of the land and had a castle built on it until the early 1800s. The castle housed all the administrative offices of the island. This part of the island collapsed after an earthquake, and only the huge hill of Scaros is left today.
Immerovigli also faces the volcano and offers an incredible view of the sunset.

5.Santorini Skaros Rock: 
Skaros is a rocky headland that protrudes out to the azure blue Aegean Sea. It is ideally located at the frontage of Imerovigli village. In the earlier days, a majestic castle was located here which used to be the principal place of Christian congregation in Santorini till the beginning of the 1800’s. Unfortunately, the castle was completely ruined during an earthquake in the 19th century and all that remains today are the remnants of the castle. Legend has it that the medieval castle of Skaros, was never ever conquered during its long 600 years of existence.
There is a well-defined trail that originates from the renowned Agios Georgios church that connects Skaros with the village of Imerovigli. The views are breathtaking and are literally a treat to ones eyes.
Skaros used to be the capital of Santorini till the 18th century. Later on in the 19th century, Fira became the capital due largely to its proximity and easy accessibility to the sea. Inspite of this, Skaros still retains its old world charms and has plenty to offer in terms of scenic beauty of the surrounding areas inclusive of the Caldera. 
The neighborhood around Skaros is choc-a-bloc with restaurants, bars and hotels. Due to its stunning landscape and scenic beauty, many couples from the world over come here to celebrate their wedding ceremony as well as to spend their honeymoon at Skaros and the picturesque village of Imerovigli.

6.Pyrgos Santorini: 
Pyrgos is situated 8 km southeast of Fira. The village was built on the top of a hill and present an incredible panoramic view of the whole island.
This village of Santorini has a population of 500 inhabitants, and used to be the capital of the island until the early 1800s, The village is formed by traditional houses built all around the Venetian castle, and the small streets follow the shape of the hill.
The village has many churches: the church of Theotokaki with its beautiful frescoes and old icons; Agia Triada, the churches of Agia Theodosia; Metamorphosi tou Sotira (Transfiguration of the Saviour); Agios Nikolaos; Eisodia tis Theotokou (Presentation of the Virgin Mary) and the Archangel Michael.
The most famous church of the island of Santorini is also located in the area: Monastery of Prophitis Ilias four kilometres away from Pyrgos. A small collection of ethnographic material and old icons can be admired in this monaster

7.Kastelli Castle	
Kasteli Castle in Santorini: Kasteli castle is nothing but a splendid Venetian Castle of Santorini which is ideally located in the picturesque village of Pyrgos. 
This village is in close proximity to the capital city of Fira. In fact, the village of Pyrgos is the highest spot of the island. The houses are arranged amphitheatrically surrounding the remains of the Venetian castle (today known as "Kasteli") offering a magnificent view.
At the highest point of the island and only 8km from Fira, is situated Pyrgos. The impregnable Kasteli Castle used to be a fortress during the medieval era. It is conspicuous by its marvelous architectural grandeur. 
The location of the castle too is great and is positioned in the center of the village, which is surprising indeed. Normally castles and forts are built on the outer peripheries of towns and villages. But the Kasteli Castle seems to be an exception

8.Santo Wines in Pyrgos, Santorini
The Santo Winery, which opened in 1992, is located in Pyrgos and enjoys spectacular views of the caldera and the Mediterranean Sea. A highly modernized winery where technological advancement is in total harmony with traditional methods, the Santo Winery is built on five different levels in keeping with the environment and the layout of the vineyards that are also cultivated at varying ground levels, often called as the "pezoules". This greatly saves on energy as the must is transferred by gravity alone without the need for pumps or other machines. 
The winery opened as Santowines Oenotourism Center in 1992, and ever since, it receives over 80.000 visitors from around the world every year. A guided tour shows visitors the process of vinification and aging of wines, and there is a wine bar at Santo Winery, where visitors can taste the special wines that have received awards for its superior quality and taste. Among the Santo produce are a wide selection of dry whites: Santorini Assyrtiko and Santorini Nykteri, a dry white wine. At the wine showroom, visitors are shown a documentary film that traces the history of Santorini wines to the present. 
The charming terrace with magnificent views can host weddings and private parties, and there is also a main room with a capacity of over 120 people for hosting seminars or other special events. An assortment of Vinsanto, the sweet dessert wine, is also produced here and includes a liqueur version, Vin De Liqueur. 
image : greecesantorinisantowines03.jpg
image : greecesantorinisantowines04.jpg


9.Santorini Villages: Akrotiri village in Santorini	
Akrotiri Santorini: Akrotiri is located next to famous Red Beach and is the most important archaeological site of Santorini.
Akrotiri was originally a Minoan settlement. The city looks a lot like the relics found in the island of Crete, covered with wall paintings of flowers, dolphins, fishing, boxing and other ancient everyday life scenes. Unfortunately the site is closed at the moment. One could also find pottery painted with naturalistic landscapes, animals or humans.
The city has impressive two- and three-storey buildings.
Everything has been extremely well preserved because of the volcanic soil of the area.
The city found in Akrotiri must have been destroyed by the terrible eruption of Santorini’s volcano around 1500 BC. 
The beautiful frescoes of Akrotiri, Santorini, can only be seen in the National Archaeological Museum of Athens.
Akrotiri has several other centres of interest. There are many hotels and also many taverns located in the area. Some of them are built in the traditional way, inside an alcove.
 
10.Santorini Akrotiri Lighthouse	
The Akrotiri Lighthouse is among the oldest lighthouses in this part of the world and was constructed way back in 1892. It stands like a sentinel towards the on the southern peninsula of Santorini island.
The lighthouse of Akrotiri is conspicuous by its square shaped tower that looms above10meters from the lighthouse warden’s house. Initially, the lighthouse was operated by petrol fuel. But with the introduction of electricity in the year 1988, it has been operated electronically and reportedly emits a radiant white light at intervals of 20 seconds.
According to historical records, the Akrotiri Lighthouse was built by a renowned French trading company in the year 1892. The peripheral area surrounding the lighthouse is replete with vestiges of the Minoan period which is regarded by many scholars as the high water mark of the Aegean culture and civilization. 
The best time to visit the Akrotiri Lighthouse is during sunset. The view of the red molten ball dipping into the azure blue Aegean Sea makes for a kaleidoscopic vignette. The surrounding area of the Lighthouse is replete with fish taverns and first time visitors would do well to spend some time savoring the sea food delicacies on offer.

11.Santorini Sightseeing: The Minoan City of Akrotiri	
The site of Akrotiri had been closed for many years but it reopened to visitors in April 2012 
The archaeological site of Akrotiri is one of Santorini's main attractions. Located on the southern side of the island, between the village of Akrotiri and the famous Red beach, this site is visited by thousands of visitors every year. Excavations on Akrotiri has started as early as the 1870s by the French Archaeological School of Athens. 
Few years later in 1866, the first traces of an ancient settlement had been accidentally revealed, during the works to get volcanic soil from Santorini in order to insulate the Suez Canal Bridge. In the century that followed, many excavations were conducted until the excavations of archaeologist Spyridon Marinatos started in 1967.
The works revealed a fully-working and developed settlement. Archaeologists believe that the town was originally constructed around 4,500 B.C. but in the 17th century B.C. it was destroyed by an earthquake. A new town was built on the ruins of the old town, until it was also destroyed by the volcanic eruption about one century later. 
The location of the town was ideal, as it served as a safe port and thus it developed an important commerce activity. The urban planning was dense, the buildings had many stores, the walls were decorated with amazing frescoes, the streets were paved and there were also squares and storehouses. The frescoes depict a rich middle society, where people were dressed luxuriously and elegantly. 
The enormous volcanic eruption that destroyed the settlement of Akrotiri took place around 1,650 B.C. The entire town was covered with ashes and lava, which preserved Akrotiri almost intact through time. As no human bodies have been found covered by lava, as is the case in Pompeii, archaeologists believe that precursory earthquakes made the residents leave before the volcano erupted. Also not many valuable items were excavated, which shows that between the earthquakes and the big volcanic eruption, the residents had returned to take their personal belongings. 
This time interval between the precursory earthquakes and the eruption is estimated at about 10 days. In any case, the time between the first eruptions and the geological formation of the caldera is estimated no more than 2-3 days. The eruption took place probably in spring because flowers of olive trees were found under the lava ashes. This was the most important eruption in the world for the last 10,000 years and the tsunami waves that raised also destroyed the Minoan town of Knossos in Crete. 
In September 2005, an accident took place in Akrotiri: the wooden shelter of the site collapsed, killing a British tourist. Since then, the site had been closed till April 2012, when the new bioclimatic shelter was finished and Akrotiri opened again to visitors.

12.Santorini Venetian Castle	
Venetian Castle in Santorini: The village of Akrotiri is one of the most significant villages in terms of archaeology. Due to the pioneering efforts of Professor Spiros Marinatos and his dedicated team of archaeologists, one of the greatest archaeological excavations took place in the year 1967, on Santorini. 
Professor Spiros Marinatos and his team of dedicated excavators unearthed the vestiges of a fabulous city with a highly evolved civilization.
Large quantities of artifacts including frescoes, paintings, ancient utensils, clay and metal objects have been discovered at the Akrotiri Archaeological site of Santorini. In the medieval era Akrotiri used to be a military bastion or fortress of Santorini. 
Once the Ottoman Turks captured Santorini, the impregnable Venetian Castle of Akrotiri was completely damaged by the Turks. Today all that remains are the vestiges and remnants of the castle.In fact upon close observation, one can still locate the towers of the castle.
One can also visit the old churches of Aghia Triada and Ypapanti tou Soteros that are located in close proximity to the Venetian Castle.


13.Santorini Sunset

Santorini sunset: Santorini is one of the best places on earth as far as sunset viewing is concerned. In fact few places can match the sheer beauty of Santorini’s sunset views. Visitor to the island fallen in love with the bewitchingly beautiful sunsets that can be savored from many vantage positions in the island. Most visitors to Santorini agree that sunsets when viewed from Santorini makes for a truly surreal experience.
The towns and villages of Santorini are dotted with buildings that have been built after the catastrophic 1956’s earthquake. Many of the older buildings collapsed in the earthquake, the newer buildings which includes hotels and restaurants have been built mostly on the cliffs so as to provide visitors and residents alike with truly mesmerizing views of Santorini’s natural beauty and sunsets.
For the avid photographer, there is no place like Santorini. It is the Mecca of outdoor photography. Many internationally acclaimed photographers have shot amazing photographs, particularly depicting the ethereal Santorini sunset. 
There is huge demand for hotel space particularly in the picturesque village of Oia which offers some of the most inspiring sunset views in the whole of Santorini. 
Due to the fact that the romantic Santorini sunset is so potent couples prefer to spend the late afternoons in the company of each other and accordingly the hotels and restaurants have made the necessary arrangements exclusively targetted to attract couples who come in droves from all over the world just to view the sunset from Oia’s many vantage points. Undoubtedly, Oia is among the most romantic places in the world. 
A novel way of experiencing the Santorini sunset is by embarking on a sunset cruise on board a traditional Santorini boat. Most of the harbors of the island run regular sunset cruises and it is a sheer delight to be on board and witness the ethereal sunset.


14. Santorini Volcano	
The Volcano of Santorini Palea (old) Kameni and Nea (new) Kameni (an adjective that means burned in Greek) are two small islands of black lava positioned in the centre of the basin of Santorini and are, geographically, the youngest islets in the Eastern Mediterranean.
Palea Kameni is about 2000 years old while Nea Kameni’s “life” does not exceed 500 years.Caldera, as the volcano is called, is one of the main attractions of Santorini and the setting of many villages.
The Caldera offers an incredible show from the villages situated on the high cliffs, especially during the amazingly coloured sunset. Tourists can visit the volcano by taking one of the daily cruises advertised in any village. One can walk upon the solid black lava sides of the steaming volcano.Nea Kameni is the central one, and once on its shore, after a walk of 20 minutes in the “lunar” scenery, visitors will discover the volcano’s crater and other openings bursting with sulphur steam. The area also offers an incredible view of the beautiful villages hanging on the cliffs. 
The oldest volcano, Palea Kameni also has hot springs. 


15.Santorini Villages: Ammoudi village in Santorini	
Ammoudi Santorini: Ammoudi is the charming port of Oia in Santorini. It is not actually a village but few traditional buildings set around a port. In Ammoudi, there are port services and few taverns. Several fishing and tour boats moor in summer there, creating a very picturesque scenery. 
Ammoudi is surrounded by impressive high red cliffs and on top of the cliffs, there is Oia, the most picturesque village of Santorini. 300 narrow and steep steps lead the way between Ammoudi and Oia. Donkeys can also be used for transport. A small rocky beach stands next to Ammoudi, ideal for diving. Several tour boats stop in Ammoudi on the way to Thirassia and the volcano. The other small port of Oia is Armeni.

16.Santorini Port: Athinios Port in Santorini	
Athinios Port Santorini: Athinios is not actually a village, but the main port of Santorini where all the ferries arrive from Athens and other Greek islands. The cruise ships and boat trips arrive in the small port of Fira, but the ferries arrive in Athinios, at a distance of 7 km south of Fira. The port is connected to Fira and all the other villages of Santorini by bus or taxi. The cliff around Athinios is impressive. 
There are no houses there, only the buildings of the port authorities and some travel agencies. Over the last years, there are plans to move the main port of Santorini from Athinios to Vlychada, on the southern side of the island, to decompress the central part of the island

17.Santorini Villages: Emporio village in Santorini	
Emporio Santorini: Approaching Emporio from the west of Santorini, one is greeted by the fantastic site of a whole string of old windmills on the hillside.
Once into the village at the centre stand two lovely, blue domed Cycladic churches which are currently having their large bell towers restored.
Half way up the village there’s a dilapidated fortress which looks as though it will slide down the hill at any moment.
To the east of the town things aren' t quite so stunning with a succession of large supermarkets and hotels. These lead you down to hugely popular Perissa beach.

18.Finikia Oia: 
Finikia is a small village which contains some traditional Cycladic churches and here you can also find some of the cave houses that are dug into the island itself.
These houses of Santorini are designed to insulate the occupants in the winter and if you get the chance to enter one during the summer you will notice how nice and cool the temperature is. The other good thing about the sort of houses you find at Finikia is that increasing their size is not much a problem; another room just needs to be dug into the soft rock. 

19.Santorini Villages: Karterados village in Santorini	
Karterados Santorini: Karterados is a quaint village of Santorini and is a mere 2 Km. away from the town of Fira. The village is conspicuous for its innovative architecture, which leaves the tourists spellbound. In addition to its architectural heritage, there are many vineyards around the village, which imparts an element of ethereal beauty to Karterados.
Karterados has all kinds of recreational facilities for tourists like ultra modern sport amenities, ethnic taverns with delicious local delicacies, cozy cafes and lively and vibrant bars. 
A visit to the neighborhood Karterados bakery is a must if you want to savor delicious cookies.Karterados is also renowned for its elegant whitewashed churches that stand out for their brilliant architecture. The Analipsis, the Eisodia tis Theotokou and Aghios Nikolaos will take your breath away. The beach is an added attraction and is tranquility personified.
A visit to Karterados reveals rocky houses that have been literally burrowed out of a stream and you would be taken aback by the sight of the house’s roofs which are at the identical level with the pavement. In 19th century Karterados evolved into a wealthy and prosperous village and many rich ship-owners had built their mansions here. 
As you go past the village there is a road that takes you to the tranquil rocky beach of Exo Gialos and needless to say its’s great fun. There are numerous fine hotels at Karterados that can accommodate you.

20.Santorini Villages: Megalochori village in Santorini	
Megalohori Santorini: Megalohori sits on a hill facing to the east of Santorini and as you approach its centre you will find the roads becoming thinner and a number of pretty alleyways.
You can't fail to notice the large number of wine tasting places here and indeed this village is at the heart of the island's industry. 
Many of the bigger facilities, like Boutari, are on the village's outskirts among the vineyards.
The village itself has a nice mixture of cream and white Cycladic houses with a fair few churches for good measure. The walls are wonderfully rounded and lead down to a main square which hosts a couple of tavernas.



21.Santorini Seightseeing: The Catholic Cathedral in Santorini	

This cathedral of Santorini is in great contrast to many of its Byzantine neighbours. The peach exterior makes it stand out from afar, as of course does its size. There are also a wonderfully ornate clock tower within which are also bells. The inside is just as decorative with large religious portraits framed with pillars. The dome from the interior is lilac blue and other parts are colored orange and cream. Look out for the confession box by the door. One can also tell that the cathedral is not that old and was in fact restored and opened in 1975 after suffering from the earthquake of the fifties.



22.Santorini Sightseeing: The Orthodox Metropolitan cathedral	

This cathedral sits prominently towards the bottom of the town and can be seen from quite a distance from many points of Santorini. 
Rolling arches create a courtyard and there is also an impressive belltower. The curves are the arches are mirrored in the design of the dome above.
There is a nice mosaic on the outside of the cathedral but close inspection reveals it only dates from 1975.
The cathedral dates from the 19th century but was rebuilt after the earthquake in 1956 and one can tell that it is quite modern.


23. The Monastery of Agios Nikolaos in Santorini Greece: 
The historical female Monastery of Agios Nikolaos is located between the villages of Firostefani and Imerovigli in Santorini. The monastery is dedicated to three saints, Agios Panteleimon, Zoodoxos Pighi (which means "the life-giving source" in Greek) and Agios Nikolaos. 
This monastery was originally founded in December 6th in 1651 and it was the second monastery built in Santorini. The Gizi family, one of the few Orthodox families who lived inside the Venetian Castle of Skaros, decided to turn their private chapel into a monastery, which eventually remained on that position till 1815. That year, the archbishop of Santorini gave permission to move the monastery to its present location, where the small chapel of Zoodohos Pighi was located. 
The construction of the new monastery lasted till 1820. Today, the large halls of the Monastery of Agios Nikolaos host a folklore museum and an ecclesiastical museum with rare Byzantine icons. The icon of Agios Nikolaos, in particular, is very important and so is the wooden iconostasis of the katholikon, the main church of the monastery.


24.Thirasia Island
The island of Thirasia close to Santorini: The island of Thirasia is located in close proximity to Santorini and, in fact, it was once a part of it. The volcanic eruption that happened at around 1500 B.C. broke Santorini into many pieces and Thirasia emerged as one of those. Thirassia is today a virgin island, still untouched by tourism and modern life style. 
The island of Thirasia is only 9 sq. km in size and has only one hundred and fifty permanent inhabitants. Manolas village is the capital of Thirassia. Other settlements include Korfos, Riva and Potamos. Manolas has small, picturesque houses painted in various colors. The virgin beaches and the pure nature are the main attractions of Thirasia. A walk through villages can also be a wonderful experience, as in front of the houses there are big gardens with colorful blossoms.
From Manolas, you can trek to the Monastery of the Assumption of the Virgin. Apart from this monastery, there are other twenty churches on Thirasia. Each year, on September 21st, there is a feast to honor Virgin Mary. Other places to visit there are some hot springs. 
There are quite a few places to stay on Thirassia. However, the food in the local taverns is very nice and authentic Greek cuisine can be tasted in the taverns and cafes. In summer, daily boat trips are organized between Santorini and Thirasia.



25.Santorini Seightseeing: The Ancient Thira Museum in Santorini	

Even from the outside this museum is quite spectacular. 
As you enter the first thing you notice is the air-conditioning which aids your tour around. The explanations of the objects here are detailed and very interesting.
The museum is square and you go to your right as you enter. One of the first things you see are fossils which include those of olive leaves. As you walk around the glass cases some of the exhibits that particularly stand out are a clay oven and a bathing tub that makes you wonder how anyone ever fit inside.
The weights and ranked sizes of vases are a good indicator of the existence of some unit of measuring value well before other cultures caught on.
Further on you can see some marvelous frescos including the House of Ladies. The explanation of how they were made is very in depth and worth reading.
Before you leave is a gold ibex figurine which shines brightly.


 

26. Santorini Seightseeing: The Santorini Archeological Museum	

This museum of Santorini costs a couple of Euros to enter and with the same entry pass you can also get entry to the Museum of Historic Thera. Its highlights include pre-historic vases from Akrotiri and marble figurines. It is not very large and can be explored in half an hour. The clay statuettes deserve a close look and you can see various birds, livestock and dolphins.



27.Boutari in Megalochori, Santorini
General Information:
Boutari Winery, established way back in 1989, has emerged as one of the leading wineries in Santorini and reflects the island's strong wine-making traditions. The beautiful white-domed winery is located in Megalochori. Spread on an area of approximately 6 hectares, the vineyards are located to the south of the island at an altitude of 105-140 meters. 
Local white varieties, including Assyrtiko, Athiri and Aidani, as well as a few others experimental varieties are cultivated at Boutari vineyards. Five dry white wines are produced here and they include Kallisti and Nykteri. The sweet wines include Vinsanto Santorini (white) and the Ampeliastos (red), and every year, one experimental wine is produced at Boutari winery. The winery is open to public and offers a guided tour in five different languages and a multimedia presentation.
image: greecesantoriniboutari.jpg

28.Santorini Villages: Mesa Gonia village in Santorini	
Mesa and Exo Gonia Santorini: Set in the striking vines which cover great swathes of Santorini these villages are very much agricultural. 
During the days they are peaceful and in vast contrast to the nearby Kamari.
Exo Gonia is ampitheatre like and has in its midst some wonderful churches. The largest of these is red tiled with a bell tower that hovers over the town.
The houses here are of the traditional Cycladean kind.

29.Canava Roussos in Mesa Gonia, Santorini
General Information:
Roussos is a family-owned winery that has been producing the most famous wines of the island since 1836 in its renowned winery at Episkopi Santorini (Mesa Gonia).
The island's unique ecosystem and the volcanic soil are ideal for growing Thiran, a particular grape variety that is used to create Roussos wines. Developed as a family tradition and then as an art that has traveled through generations, the wine making tradition of Roussos reflects the islandâ€™s unique culture: the love for good food and wine. 
Roussos Winery is one of the oldest cellars in Santorini and an artful blend of a century-old tradition as well as modern techniques has helped the Canava Roussos to create wines with highly distinct tastes and bouquets. 
There are 7 famous wines from the house of Roussos: Caldera Roussos, Santorini Roussos, Athiri Roussos, Nykteri Roussos, Mavranthiro Roussos, Nama Roussos and Rivari Roussos. Among the Roussos collection, the most renowned wines are the traditional Nykteri (an aged dry white) and Vinsanto, a sweet wine produced from sun-dried grapes. 
At harvest time, many visitors arrive at Roussos winery for a wine-tasting tour and to see the traditional wine-making methods that are carried out in subterranean cisterns or huge barrels. 
There is also a taverna at the winery, where visitors can enjoy a traditional Greek meal. The outdoor dining of the winery has wonderful views of the sea and the winery organizes "Santorini Evenings" to sample their wines and to enjoy local specialties such as mezedes, Greek cheese, fava, tomato balls, fresh salads of caper and tiny tomatoes and many others. Besides upholding the wine making tradition of Santorini, Roussos also plays host to several theatre performances, concerts and exhibitions that showcase the rich cultural heritage of the Greek islands.
image:greecesantorinicanava.jpg

30.Santorini Sightseeing: Panagia Episkopi Sightseeing in Fira	
This church of Santorini has managed to survive various invasions as well as the many earthquakes on the island. It’s good to contrast it with some of the island’s larger and more modern churches. You reach it up a bumpy road and close can admire the orange tile roof and notice the faded front.


31.Santorini Villages: Messaria village in Santorini	
Messaria is a small traditional village situated four km southeast of Fira, the capital of Santorini.
The houses are built in the traditional style of the Cycladic islands. It is one of the few villages of the island where people make a living by agriculture, mostly wine production.
The roads are very busy in this village as it’s on the main thoroughfare for getting around much of the island.
The main square is also something of a disappointment.
The best things about the village are higher up where you can find a super collection of churches in a very small area. Around this area there are also some fantastic mansion style houses with interesting architecture.


32.Santorini Archontiko Argyrou	
Archontiko Argyrou on Santorini: Archontiko Argyrou is a grandiose regal mansion and its architectural elegance is unmatched by any other hospitality properties in Santorini. This stupendous mansion is ideally located in the picturesque village of Messaria. The nearest town is Fira which is a mere 3 Kms drive from the mansion. The gorgeous Monolithos beach too is in close proximity to the Archontiko Argyrou. 
Archontiko Argyrou is renowned for its intricately done up neoclassical architecture. This regal mansion was built way back in the year 1860 and visitors who fall in love with this historical mansion also have the option of staying in the regally done up guestrooms located on the ground floor.
The mansion is grandiose personified with high quality ethnic architecture, arched ceilings and exquisite floors. There is a whiff of romance in the air at the Archontiko Argyrou. The guestrooms are known for their ornate décor and matching furnishings and oozes with sophistication.
There is a museum on the first floor which has a good collection of artifacts and antiquities that offers fascinating insight on the fabled Greek tradition, culture and heritage. You will come across unusual paintings, antique furniture and a plethora of articles dating back to the 19th century. The neighborhood surrounding the mansion is dotted with small shops. 
This palatial mansion was the brainchild of George Argyros who was a prosperous landlord and he built this remarkable mansion in the year 1888. Even though a part of the edifice was badly damaged during the 1956 earthquake after which it remained isolated for thirty five years. 
However, with the pioneering vision of Melina Merkouri, the then Minister of Culture, in the year 1985, the entire mansion was renovated and restored to its former glory. 


33.Santorini Villages: Vothonas village in Santorini	
Vothonas Village Santorini: The village of Vothonas is a mere 6 Km away from the town of Fira. It is among the most picturesque village of Santorini and the best part of Vothonas village is that it is sparsely populated which means there is no need to fear about crowds. You can be assured of peace and quietude, two elements that are at premium in this jet set modern age. 
Vothonas village is a living testimony of a village carved out of rocks. Most of the houses have been dug out of the streams. A leisurely walk along the principal street leaves you mesmerized with the astuteness and creativity of the village craftsmen, who knew how to protect their houses from violent storms. Vothonas village is the architectural showpiece of Santorini Island. There are many inspiring facades of villas that are conspicuous by their stylish doorways and pilasters that blend perfectly with the general white domed shaped houses that are in a majority. 
No visit to Vothonas is ever complete without visiting the magnificent church of St. Anna, which happens to be the oldest church of the village and was built way back in 1827. The piece de resistance of the church is the intricately carved wooden panel, which is artistically engraved with scenes from the Old Testament. If you are energetic enough, you would do well to clamber atop the Panagia Trypa, which is located on the edge of a high cliff

34.Santorini See & Do: Caldera	
Santorini Caldera: The word Caldera is derived from the Spanish word Cauldron which literally means depression created by volcanic eruption which extends for atleast a distance of one mile.
3,500 years back Santorini witnessed an awesome volcanic explosion which occurred in the Aegean Sea and as a result created a huge caldera. The Santorini caldera is approximately four miles in diameter.
The Santorini Caldera undoubtedly is one of the natural wonders on planet earth. The volcanic explosion that occurred here more than 3500 years ago forever changed the topography of the Mediterranean coast.
A growing number of scientists and archaeologists link the Santorini caldera to the myth of Atlantis.The Santorini caldera is actually a basin, whichscientists and archaeologists link the Santorini caldera to the myth of Atlantis.The Santorini caldera is actually a basin, which extends for miles together and the landscape is conspicuous by steep rocky cliffs that towers above, almost touching the sky at more than a thousand feet from the sea level and even extends underneath the sea for an additional thousand feet, thereby creating a perfect harbor.
To the northernmost part of the Caldera is the picture perfect town of Oia. This town is much preferred by the tourists and is always buzzing with activity with plenty of bars, restaurants and hotels that are ideally positioned on rocky promontories that provides the discerning international tourist with fabulous panoramic views of the Santorini Caldera. Oia can be reached by a road that meanders along the rather steepcliffs located to the eastern periphery of Santorini. At certain points this road is so narrow that it looks more like a ridge that can barely accommodate two lanes with no railing for protection. No wonder than that the trip to Oia is not for the faint hearted.
There is also the capital city of Fira which is ideally located to the eastern elevation of the Caldera. The town of Fira is well spread over several high cliffs some of which towers above reaching heights of 1,200 feet above sea level which makes for an awesome spectacle. Fira like Oia is replete with bars, restaurants and hotels that have been built in vantage locales with a view to provide the discerning tourists with amazing panoramic vistas of the Santorini caldera. The principal port of Santorini is just below the cliff and tourists who arrive at the port of Fira always have the option of embarking on a donkey ride that takes them to the summit from where the surrounding natural panorama is absolutely breathtaking to say the least. For the no so agile, there is the option of a cable car ride which is exciting as well.
A peculiar characteristic of Santorini villages is that they have been constructed right on the calderas rim. Also, it is a fact that the peripheral areas of the caldera are exposed to strong and blustery winds. 
The volcanic explosion that occurred here some 3500 years ago completely submerged the center of ancient kingdom of Strongyle. The resultant void that was created in the landscape was filled up by gushing sea waters and thus the caldera came into existence. In certain places the Santorini caldera is all of 400 meters deep.
Today, the Santorini Caldera is one of the most important geological configurations on planet earth and rightfully, it has been the subject of higher research in the domain of Geology as well as Archaeology.
The Santorini caldera has an elevation, which varies between 150 to 350 meters. The distance from one end of the island (Cape Exomitis) to the other end (Cape Mavropetra) is 18 Kms. The island's breadth varies from 2 to 6 Kms.


35.Santorini Beaches: Red Beach beach in Santorini Greece	
Red beach Santorini: The red beach is one of the most famous and beautiful of the beaches of Santorini. It is located near the village and ancient site of Akrotiri.
Because it is smallish, the red beach gets quite busy. A number of people come onto the headland just to admire this beach and never make it down to the hot sand. The reason why it attracts so many people is because of the slabs of red and black volcanic rocks behind it.
Indeed one walks from the car park over a rocky route before it comes into view. If you look along the rock you can see it gradually turn white and the next beach obtains its name from this. The sand itself is reddish black and painful to sit straight onto. There are thus a lot of sun loungers and shades. Just in front of the clear water is a corridor of large pebbles. You find on this beach that the sun seems to beat down particularly strong. The snorkeling is good here due to the interesting rocks. 
Only accessible by car and then by walking from the lot, it can reached by the sea, with caiques (small fishing boats which are used during the summer for transportation) that depart from the ports of Akrotiri and Fira.
The White Beach is also located in the area, and the same caique can take you to it.

36.Santorini Beaches: Kamari beach in Santorini Greece	
Kamari Santorini: Kamari is a famous beach resort of Santorini situated ten kilometers southeast of Fira, on the exact opposite side of the island from Perissa.
The general landscape is much similar to Perissa: an impressive long and inviting black sandy beach, characterized by an enormous rock called Mesa Vouno that rises from the sea.
The area offers a great landscape, especially at night, when the rock is lighted.
The village of Kamari is not built in the same manner that Perissa. The houses of the village line the beach, and offer a nice walk (volta) by the sea. 
The area is more crowded and offers a bigger diversity of hotels, rooms, restaurants, snacks, cafés, bars and night clubs.
The beach of Kamari is fully organised and offers all kinds of facilities like sun chairs, umbrellas and different types of water sports.
From Kamari, a road takes you up the mountain to Ancient Thira, and a caique (traditional fishing boat) can bring you to the wild isle of Anafi.

37.Perissa Santorini: Perissa is a beach resort situated 15 km southeast of Fira. It is a very tourist-crowded village and has an impressively long black sandy beach.
It’s most noticeable feature is the Mesa Vouno, an enormous rock rising from the sea.
This area of Santorini offers a great night view when the lights of the rock are lit.
The village of Perissa is not really a village but a mostly a tourist town, populated only during the summer holidays time. The village offers a great variety of hotels and rooms, taverns and restaurants, cafes, bars, beach bars and night clubs.
The area is newly built and has been created only for the purpose of welcoming tourists, which explains the architecture, that is very different from the other villages, that are much more traditional.
From Perissa, a small path crosses the mountain and leads to the ruins of Ancient Thera.
The excursions can be made by foot or riding donkeys..
The village of Perissa is also home to the charming chapel of Agia Irena (16th-17th centuries).

38.Santorini Beaches: Agios Georgios beach in Santorini Greece	
Agios Georgios Beach Santorini: One of the famous black beaches of Santorini, Agios Georgios beach is one of the more “tourist friendly” beaches. Located near Perissa, about 3.5 kilometers away, Agios Georgios beach is an exciting option to any visitor to the town. It provides everything to a visitor, from umbrellas and seats for rent, to hotels and bars that fit every budget. With options galore, visitors are spoilt for choice and there are always too many things to do and not enough time.
A large number of restaurants and tavernas lining the seafront offer a break from the activities on the beach. The beach is a haven for water sport enthusiasts, giving them a wide range of water activities to choose from, including Jet- skiing, scuba-diving, windsurfing, paddleboats and banana boats. Agios Georgios beach is clearly an ideal holiday spot for people of all tastes and styles.


39. Santorini Beaches: Cape Columbo beach in Santorini Greece	
Cape Columbo Santorini: This is one of Santorini’s most isolated beaches and one of its most quiet.
There is a long strip of dark sand which becomes thinner as the cliff rises up behind it. You can park on the headland in two different positions and make your way down to this part. Alternatively to the north there is another more conventional entrance and here there is less privacy.
The waves beat down on this beach.

40.Santorini Beaches: Perivolos beach in Santorini Greece	
Perivolos Santorini: The picturesque beach of Perivolos is ideally located in close proximity to Perissa which is a mere 3 Kms away. This marvelous beach of Santorini is towards the southern end of the island of Santorini. The beach is conspicuous by its sparkling azure blue waters and is among the most tranquil beaches in the whole of Santorini.
On the beachfront there are numerous taverns, pubs and restaurants. Don’t miss out on the fish based local Santorini delicacies. They are lip smacking good. In fact sea food never tasted this good before.
Perivolos beach is easily accessible from Perissa. Buses and cabs can be hired that will take you to the Perivolos beach. Visitors with high energy levels can choose to walk the distance and the walk is indeed invigorating as the surrounding countryside is bewitchingly beautiful.
Perivolos beach in many ways is an extension or continuation of the Perissa and Agios Georgis beaches and there are absolutely no barriers in between the beaches. This is all the more reason to visit the marvelous stretches of Perivolos beach as you are offered with more choice and diversity in terms beach side fun, fiesta and amenities.
The Perivolos beach is also referred to, as The Black Beach due primarily to the fact that its shoreline is strewn with black pebbles which in itself is pretty unique. For visitors who have done the beaches of the Carribean, Australian and Asia Pacific, the black color of the beachfront at Perivolos comes as a breath of fresh air.
Perivolos beach happens to be among the more organized beaches of Santorini, and beach bums are in for a treat in terms of the plethora of exciting water sports facilities that are on offer like windsurfing, scuba diving, jet skiing etc. to name just a few. In fact one can have a whale of a time at this pretty beach of Santorini.

41.Santorini Beaches: Vlychada beach in Santorini Greece	
Vlychada Santorini: The beach follows a smooth descent. You will notice as you approach two large chimneys. One is directly behind the beach and one nearby, but don’t worry this factory is no longer in use and the brick structures are actually quite pleasant to look at.
This beach of Santorini itself is quite long with the dark grey sand one finds all over the island. There are a number of sun loungers here. It’s worth having a look at the rock formations behind the beach which are quite interesting.

42.Vourvoulos Santorini: Vourvolos beach is a mere 7 Kms. from Fira located to the northeast. This sandy beach of Santorini is ideal for relaxation and water is almost turquoise blue. The best part about Vourvoulos beach is that it is among the lesser known beaches of Santorini and as such it is secluded which provides discreet privacy to the discerning beach bum. 
Visitors to Vourvoulos would do well to visit the fascinating village of Karterados. It is without doubt one of the most
stunning village of Santorini and the buildings here in Karterados are renowned for their architectural grandeur. The landscape is rocky which only adds to the charm of the village. The houses here are surprisingly at an identical level with the street and the churches are indeed elegant in terms of architectural style.
Regrettably the Vourvoulos beach is not well maintained and the beach is full of garbage and trash. Also, it is a fact that the sea breeze here is very blustery which makes sun bathing at the beach to be a dangerous proposition. The waves too are huge and it is always advisable to be at a safe distance from the shoreline.
The Vourvoulos beach is ideal for someone who wants to holiday unseen and unheard. There is no fax, no telephone, no E-mails to bother. Here at Vourvoulos it is simply you and the sea.

43.Santorini Beaches: White beach in Santorini Greece	
White Beach Santorini: The cove right next to the Red beach, on the southern side of Santorini, is known as the White beach. It is very similar to the Red beach, with black pebbles on the shore, only that the surrounding cliffs are white. This beach is accessible only by boat or on foot from the Red beach. 
It is less popular than the neighbouring cove and therefore more quiet. It doesn't have much facilities, except for some umbrellas and sunbeds along the coast, although the surrounding rocks provide some shade too.
 
44. Hike From Fira to Oia
This was the most gorgeous hike I've ever been on, well worth the effort. We started in Imerovigli instead of Fira (though we walked from Fira to Imerovigli the prior day and it was really cute to go through the city) - we started a bit later than we'd hoped so we were walking quite fast to catch the sunset from the castle at the tip of Oia, but we did the whole thing in under 2 hours. Depending on how many breaks you want to take and the fitness level of your companions, you can adjust accordingly. We brought water and fruit, which was perfect for the hot but windy day.
Our hotel manager recommended doing the hike at 5 or 5.30pm, which was great not only because it was less hot, but also because that's when the sun gives the best light on the western side of the island. The views are breathtaking - both for their beauty and for the fact that you're often standing on a cliff with a crazy drop if you take a wrong step. If you have small children, I would be careful, as you're literally scaling hills without railings on gravel at some point. 
We were concerned that it might not be obvious where to go, but there are signs that appear periodically, and you can generally see where Oia is as you go. It was pretty amazing that you're hiking around the same Caldera but at each point, the view changes. Bring a good camera!
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5RtMWyBcjuI
“DO THIS!!! Great trip with gorgeous views. Skip the steps and take the cable car!”
I'd seen this hike on another website and decided that we'd do it when our ship stopped in Santorini on a cruise we were taking. We knew we'd do other hikes on this vacation, so we were prepared with hiking boots, camelbak backpacks, trail mix, and sunscreen too. We did the hike in June, so it was definitely a scorcher. We started early, at about 9am or so, with the intent to make it to Oia by lunchtime. It took us about 3 hours, but we stopped several times to take pictures. 
When arriving by boat, you must decide how to get up to Fira in the first place, either take the cable car, or take the steps... all 600 of them. You can also choose to pay 5 Euro and ride a donkey up the steps. We knew we were hiking the whole thing, so why not kick it off with some cardio and hike the steps too? In the interest of health and fitness, walking up is a good idea. It's a heck of a workout and takes about 30 minutes. In the interest of not being trampled, kicked, or bitten by a donkey, or stepping in 1 of 100 piles of steaming donkey business, it is not such a good idea. It was a great workout, but if I had to do it again, I'd take the cable car. You will get plenty of exercise on this hike, so do yourself a favor here and take the cable car. There are 20 or so donkeys sharing the path with you at any given time on their way up, and then you meet the 20 or so donkeys on their way down and things can get a little hectic. We saw one donkey kick another one that this lady was riding, and she almost got a hoof right to her knee. We high-tailed it up the 800 ft, because I was not liking the donkey party we'd gotten ourselves into. It took us 26 minutes to get up the hill, and we were breathing pretty hard once we got up there. 
The walk through Fira to the trailhead is nothing special. There are a ton of touristy shops, overpriced restaurants, and cars and scooters whizzing by. Keep walking past all of it until you get to the first church on the left, then the footpath starts right behind it. (We stopped in the Hertz rental car office for directions, it was easy to find from there.) The beginning of the hike goes through a little village, with shopping and hotels all on the footpath. There are no cars, as only a scooter or bicycle will fit on the path. Once you get to the end of the village, the path will become gravel and open up. You'll be right at the cliff's edge with a beautiful view of the water and Oia in the distance. It's easy from here, just stay on the path. It will move up and down hills, become wider and narrower, change from gravel to pavement to pumice sand, and pass by churches, restaurants, and hotels with beautiful infinity pools that you will be dying to jump into. 
Perhaps the most recognizable landmark along the way is the church (Profitis Ilias), which stands alone about 2.5km (1.6mi) north of Imerovigli. Here, you will find a rock that is painted with an arrow pointing to the path to Oia. Keep following it. You've got about another 5k (3mi) to go. This will include a couple more climbs and descents, eventually leading into a path of volcanic ash/sand. After that, the path dumps out on to the road for just a few hundred feet, then you will find a trailer that sells refreshments (if it's open), and the path continues behind the trailer --Don't follow the road here! Get back on the path behind the trailer and follow it on the last uphill part. If you look at the plant life along the way, depending what time of year it is, you can find caper bushes. You'll pass 2 more churches standing by themselves, and then the path will widen and walk you right into Oia.
It really is a great hike and I can't say enough good things about it. It will only take about 3 hours even stopping to take pictures. Plus, there are a lot of places you can stop to rest, use the restroom, grab a snack/drink etc. along the way. You will have the greatest views and opportunities for beautiful panoramic shots. On a month-long trip throughout the Mediterranean, this was one of my top 5 favorite things we did.

45.Tram
Santorini Port | Ormos Athinios, Greece

There are two ways (that I know of) to get up to towns of Fira and Oia. Donkey or Tram. The donkey path in summer months is crowded and if you don't like the smell of these animals, it can be a very uncomfortable way up. Assuming there are no big cruise ships in the harbor, the wait at the tram will be only a few minutes. Once on the tram you will experience a lovely view of the harbor and Fira. It's the best way to get up to the action of Santorini!!


46.ITINERARY for Exploring SANTORINI IN 3 DAYS:

Things to Do- DAY1: Assuming you reach early morning. Check into Hotel & rest a bit, have your breakfast and leave to explore Santorini. Start with IMEROVIGLI. The best way to explore Imerovigli is parking the car at the car park and walking up the cliff. Imerovigli is a typical Santorini village. The area has many hotels and typical houses looking at the volcano and the blue ocean. The village offers an incredible view of the sunset.. There are also some nice taverns There are many cobbled streets and blue or white- washed stairs. The village is full of gorgeous houses in blue, white with just a dash of cream, yellow and ochre. Its lovely just walking around and letting all the sights sink. One can easily spend atleast 2 hours exploring and capturing the sights on lens. Following this choose from one of the many nice cafe/ taverns and have lunch. A must have after lunch is VINSANTO! Its a famous Santorini sweet wine/ liquor and a speciality of Santorini.

THE AFTERNOONS are really hot and everything shuts down, so It is recommended that one reaches back to the hotel and rests or naps for a couple of hours. Plus its Day1 and its better to take it slowly, as the famous Greek saying goes “SIGA, SIGA!”

START YOUR EVENING EARLY by 5:00 p.m. Whether staying at Oia or not- The sunset here is the most gorgeous in the world. So reach Oia by 5:00 p.m. and block the right space for a great view. People really come early and crowd the streets. You can park your car/ bike at The Liyoyerma Car Park- read the sign Kyklos. Now if you reach at 5:00 you can either walk to Ammoundi Bay and watch the sunset from a tavenra or explore Oia by foot and observe one of most beautiful sunsets ever. The sun generally sets by 7:00. You can sit at one of the many walls/ cafes or restaurants at Oia for a gorgeous sunset. Golden sunset villa has a cafe from where you can watch a great sunset. Marizan Caves and Villas too strongly recommended for the most wonderful sunset view. Oia has many restaurants and a dinner here on DAY1 is highly recommended.

Things to Do- DAY2: Start by 10:00 am. Start with PYRGOS VILLAGE. Its very different from the other Santorini Villages. Must see the Kastro when in Pyrgos. 45 minutes is good enough to get a good feel of Pyrgos. From Pyrgos proceed to the MONASTERY OF PROFITIS ILLIAS. From the Monastery go to Meglochori Village and Explore one of the many wineries and take a winery tour.

Next, Head out to the gorgeous Perissa beach. The beach has loads of cobbled stones and almost greyish black sand. There are many taverns and you can spend a couple of hours working on a great tan, swimming or eating and sipping drinks! If Perissa is not of that much appeal to one then one can further go to VLYCHADA VILLAGE- full of some of the best and cheapest tavernas. One can explore the village and have lunch here. Post lunch afternoon nap is a must- at the beach or the hotel. One can spend the rest of the afternoon at Akrotiri- THE RED BEACH.

LEAVE FOR SUNSET AND AN ACTION PACKED NIGHT AT FIRA. More about Clubs:

General Closing Hours for clubs and bars:
Cafes: Between 1.00 & 2.00 a.m
Bars: Between 2.30 & 3.00 a.m.
Clubs: Friday & Saturday - all year round until till the early hours of the morning. Low Season: weekdays 3.00 a.m. High Season - Weekdays 5.30 a.m.
Beach Cafes: Between 1.00 & 2.00 a.m
Beach Bars: Beach Bars fall into 2 categories - 'day club scene' beach bars such as Wet Stories or Chilli Beach Bar close around 9.00 p.m. but this is not engraved in stone.
Evening Beach Bars: (Ethnic, Hook Bar, Mango) stay open until the early hours of the morning.

SOME OF FIRA CLUBS:

• Casablanca Soul- FIRA-24008- Club / Alternative
• Koo Club-FIRA,22025-Pumping Main Stream
• Mamounia Club- FIRA,(+30) 694 541 7871-Greek / Main Stream
• Tithora Club-FIRA, 23519-Rock
• Town Club-FIRA,23675-Greek / Main Stream
• Enigma Club-FIRA,22466-Pumping Main Stream*****
• Club 33-FIRA,23065-Greek

Things to Do- DAY3: TAKE A DAY CRUISE TO THE NEA KAMENI AND PALEA KAMENI AND THIRRASIA VILLAGE.
There are many boat cruises available. Read TA reviews and ask from destination experts for guidance and book for a day cruise. The cruise takes you to the VOLCANIC ISLANDS of Palea and Nea Kameni and you have to trek a bit to reach the summit. Its totally worth the experience. Do not expect a volcano, all you will get is some sulphuric fumes and really hot steam but the views from the top are totally amazing. Post the volcanic islands the boat generally stops at the warm sulphuric areas and you can dive into the gorgeous Aegean sea and swim for a bit. Post this you will be taken by the boat to THE VILLAGE OF THIRRASIA, explore the village and have lunch there. By late afternoon you will be brought back to Santorini.

YOU CAN REST THE AFTERNOON IN YOUR HOTEL OR JUST ENJOY AND RELAX AT THE KAMARI BEACH.

FOR THE LAST EVENING go back to that part of Santorini that you have loved most and spend the sunset followed by dinner at a place that will make you remember Santorini forever!!


YAtch 
http://www.santorini.com/sailing/santorini_catamaran/
http://www.santorinisailing.com/rates.htm
http://santoriniboatrental.com/index.php?id=7
http://www.santorinisailingtours.com/santorinicatamaran.html


Santorini Boat Tours
http://aethrio.gr/english/archives/1126
http://www.sy-eleftheria.com/En/Cruise/Cruise.htm



HOTELS

Aroma Suites
http://www.booking.com/hotel/gr/aroma-suites.html?tab=1&origin=hp&error_url=%2Fhotel%2Fgr%2Faroma-suites.en-gb.html%3Faid%3D311984%3Blabel%3Dhotel-89508-gr-hPAtOwSISKwoadZA6AjEKAS4709492623%253Apl%253Ata%253Ap1%253Ap2%253Aac%253Aap1t1%253Aneg%3Bsid%3D96bee4d2168efa1e9e196f27261ed563%3Bdcid%3D1%3B&do_availability_check=on&aid=311984&dcid=1&label=hotel-89508-gr-hPAtOwSISKwoadZA6AjEKAS4709492623%3Apl%3Ata%3Ap1%3Ap2%3Aac%3Aap1t1%3Aneg&lang=en-gb&sid=96bee4d2168efa1e9e196f27261ed563&checkin_monthday=4&checkin_year_month=2013-5&checkout_monthday=5&checkout_year_month=2013-5#availability_target

Smaro Studios
http://www.booking.com/hotel/gr/smaro-studios.html?tab=1&origin=hp&error_url=%2Fhotel%2Fgr%2Fsmaro-studios.en-gb.html%3Faid%3D311984%3Blabel%3Dsmaro-studios-%252A106mfqv21D3UcMLpMLD%252AwS8366877793%253Apl%253Ata%253Ap1%253Ap2%253Aac%253Aap1t1%253Aneg%3Bsid%3D96bee4d2168efa1e9e196f27261ed563%3Bdcid%3D1%3B&do_availability_check=on&aid=311984&dcid=1&label=smaro-studios-*106mfqv21D3UcMLpMLD*wS8366877793%3Apl%3Ata%3Ap1%3Ap2%3Aac%3Aap1t1%3Aneg&lang=en-gb&sid=96bee4d2168efa1e9e196f27261ed563&checkin_monthday=4&checkin_year_month=2012-10&checkout_monthday=5&checkout_year_month=2012-10

Aethrio Hotel
http://aethrio.gr/english/archives/117


Restaurants 

Try Vinsanto chocolates

Needless to say that it is a “must” to try 
the local sweet wine of the island, Vinsanto. 
However, when I tried a brand new product of the Argyros Winery, chocolates filled with Vinsanto, I got infatuated! The sweetness
 of the wine blends with the chocolate and the outcome is something that, believe me, 
you surely do not want to miss!

Il Cantuccio in Firostefani, Santorini
General Information:
Il Cantuccio in Firostefani is one of the most famous Italian restaurants in Santorini. This tiny restaurant is housed in a warm and inviting place with vaulted ceiling. The restaurant has a lovely terrace located right below the two windmills and it is swamped with people, especially in high season. There are no caldera views from Il Cantuccio, but the quality of food more than makes up for the deficiency. The owner and head chef Giuseppe, who hails from Sicily, arrived in Santorini on a vacation many years ago, fell in love with the island and decided to settle in Firostefani and open an Italian restaurant there. 

The pizza at Il Cantuccio is handmade and along with thin-dough pizza is on the menu every day. Some of the most popular dishes are the risotto with seafood, the agnolotti with zucchinis, ravioli with spinach and manouri white cheese. Then there are also the gnocchi, which are tasty dumplings made of flour or potatoes and served with mozzarella, tomato and basil, and the penne alla norma with eggplants. The traditional lasagne and the seafood or lobster spaghetti are also some of the highlights in the menu. There are plenty of options for the veggies, too. Besides the local white wines, the wine list includes Italian whites, such as the dry Soave and other popular names. The restaurant is easy to spot and usually gets crowded. 


1. Kyra Katina 

  Every single visitor of Santorini has tried Mrs Katina’s cooking. Both celebrities and non-celebrities. A reference point at Ammoudi with home-made taramosalata, Santorini fava, fishes and octopus cooked skillfully on the grill. Also her tomatokeftedes (tomato balls) are very popular. 

Ammoudi, tel: 22860-71280


2.Ambrosia

  Two terraces at different levels, a few tables with long white tablecloths, red roses and plain white colour all around. Ideal for couples in love. From this point you cannot see the sunset, for it is from the side the Caldera overlooks Fira, but at dusk time the horizon overflows with colours. The perfect place for making your wedding proposal. The scenery and view are superb and the same goes for the Meditteranean cuisine dishes. 

Oia, tel: 22860-71413

Name of Restaurant	Appetizers	Salads	Entrees	Desserts	Wines	Service	Ambiance	Volcano View	Size of Portions	Value for Money 	Average Bill-euro	Overall
1800	  17.0	  17.5	  17.5	   18.0	 16.0	  17.5	   17.0	    8.0	   18.0	  15.5	  65.00	  17.2
Pelekanos	 10.5	 8.5	 13.0	 9.0	 12.0	 17.0	 16.5	 20.0	 18.0	 17.0	 55.0	 17.1
Koukoumavlos	  17.5	  17.0	  18.0	   17.5	 16.0	  17.0	   16.5	   20.0	   17.0	  16.0	  65.00	  17.1
Papagalos	  17.0	  17.0	  17.5	   17.0	 17.0	  17.0	   16.5	   18.0	   18.5	  19.5	  50.00	  17.0
Selene	  16.0	  16.0	  16.0	   16.0	 16.0	  16.5	   16.5	   20.0	   17.0	  17.0	  60.00	  16.1
La Maltese	  15.0	  15.0	  16.5	   16.0	 16.0	  17.0	   17.0	   20.0	   17.0	  13.5	  60.00	  16.1
Amdrosia	  14.0	  16.0	  15.0	   14.0	 15.5	  15.5	   16.0	   20.0	   13.0	   6.0	  75.00	  15.1
Sphinx	  14.0	  14.0	  13.5	   12.0	 15.0	  14.0	   15.5	   20.0	   16.0	  12.0	  60.00	  14.0
Archipelagos	  14.0	  16.0	  14.5	    9.0	 16.0	  12.5	   15.5	   20.0	   16.0	  12.0	  60.00	  13.9
Ambro & Nectar	  12.5	  13.0	  13.5	   11.0	 11.0	  14.0	   14.0	   10.0	   15.5	  13.0	  55.00	  12.7
Notos Seaside	  10.5	  13.5	  12.0	   11.0	 12.5	  14.0	   13.0	    0.0	   16.0	  13.5	  50.00	  12.4
Kastro	  10.5	   8.5	  13.0	    9.0	 12.0	  11.0	   16.0	   15.0	   16.0	  11.0	  55.00	  11.4
Vanilia	  10.0	  10.5	  10.0	   10.5	 11.5	  12.0	   14.5	   20.0	   15.5	  12.5	  50.00	  11.3
Calderimi	  11.0	  10.5	  10.0	    8.5	 12.5	  12.5	   11.0	   20.0	   16.0	  12.0	  45.00	  10.9
Saltsa	   8.5	   8.0	  11.5	    9.0	  9.5	  10.5	   12.5 	    0.0	   14.0	  11.0	  50.00	   9.9
Feredini	   9.0	   6.5	   7.0	    4.0	 12.5	  14.0	   10.5	   20.0	   14.5	  13.0	  35.00	   9.1
Karma	  17.0	   19.0	   14.0	    17.5	 15.5	  14.0	    19.5	    0.0	   13.0	   15.0	  50.00	   7.5
Kantouni	   4.0	   6.0	   6.0	    3.5	  8.5	   9.5	   13.5	    0.0	   15.5	   9.0	  50.00	   7.3
Pyrgos	 7.0	   8.0	   8.5	    2.0	  6.5	 7.0	    8.0	    0.0	   15.0	  16.0	  35.00	   6.7
 Fanari gourmet
17 
16 
18 
17 
16 
16 
19 
18 
16 
17 
45 
 17.8
Note: Price of dinner includes, cover charge, a bottle of water divided by two, a glass of open/house wine, average priced appetizer or salad divided by two, average priced main course and a dessert divided by two.



3.Ambrosia and Nectar

  One of the most elegant restaurants in Oia, belonging to people who really know about finesse, since they are the owners of Ambrosia and the Kapetanospito. Do not be deceived by the fact that it does not have a view on the Caldera, for it has its own way to compensate and reward you. You should not miss it! The romantic setting, exquisite “art de la table” and outstanding Mediterranean cuisine dishes will captivate your heart. 

Oia, tel: 22860-71504

4.Sunset 

  Paraskevas has the oldest fish-taverna in Ammoudi and for eighteen years now he has been honoring his mother’s recipes from Costantinople, as well as local recipes of the island. Ask for a table at the end of the dock. 

Ammoudi, tel: 22860-71614

5.Karma 

  Scenery taken from “Thousand and one nights”. Oriental patio, big cushions, nargilehs, flowers, ceramic jars, lit torches! And within this atmospheric environment, a particularly well-made ethnic cuisine: from sushi and spring rolls to different noodles, duck, salmon with wasabi sauce. 

Oia, tel: 22860-71404

6.1800 

  Most visitors sit on the terrace with the pergola to have a magical view while enjoying the best creative Mediterranean cuisine in Oia, for which it has repetitively received many distinctions. The energy of the Kapetanospito (Captain’s House), built in 1840, is all over the garden and the interior of the house. The furniture is authentic and placed in the original positions. Very interesting is the wine list with very good prices in local wines. 

Oia, tel: 22860-71485

7.Thalami

It pleases your senses
What is more perfect than to enjoy a romantic dinner with view of the Caldera that includes unique Greek traditional recipes and authentic Santorinian wine? In Thalami restaurant you can live this experience from the afternoon until late at night. The seafood smells will “grab” you tightly like an octopus and will let you free only when your palate –and your eyes– is pleased with the flavors of the sea!  

Oia, 12.00-24.00, tel. 22860-71009, 
www.thalamirestaurant-santorini.gr

8.Skala

Art meets taste
Few steps away from Oia’s central street you will find Skala restaurant with delicious tastes and a breathtaking view. Wherever you decide to sit, you get to have the view of the endless horizon. The dishes are so tasty and stylish that you will find it difficult to choose just one. Start with small onion and pine nut pies and the special Skala salad and continue with tomato, caper, olives and garlic pasta as main course. End your meal with a sweet finale of walnut cake with chocolate. All meals are offered in very friendly prices!

Oia, tel. 22860-71362, www.feredini.gr, 
12.30-00.30

9.Ammoudi

  The absolute definition of the fish taverna by the sea right on the wave. Choose a scorpion fish and ask Dimitris to grill it for you on charcoal in foil with garlic, salt and pepper. Should you sit right below the sign of the taverna, you will place the bread basket on the marble mooring-post right by you. It has been standing there since the early 19th century, when Ammoudi was the commercial port of Santorini. Here the ships used to carry pumice. Take photos of your company with the taverna yellow walls at the background and definitely save poses in your camera for the sunset. The sun vanishes behind Thirasia and from the specific spot of the bay you have the longest sunset duration!

Ammoudi, tel: 22860-71606 

10.Skiza café 

The café with the view
A beautiful small café in Caldera, with a balcony and a terrace that face the endless blue colors of the Aegean sea. In the morning you can have a coffee, breakfast, some juice or any of its delicious desserts. If you come in the afternoon, you can please your appetite with home made pasta, pizza, waffles and crepes. Sit on the small terrace and enjoy the magnificent view! 

Oia, tel. 22860-71569, www.feredini.gr, 08.00-01.30

11.Aris

A veranda hanging over the Caldera. Endless view on the volcano under the stars, at a restaurant situated by the swimming pool of the Loucas Hotel in Fira. Greek and international tastes with preference to local products. In July and August make your reservations in time. 

Fira, 22860-22480, 22680


12.Archipelagos 

One of the all time classic restaurants at the centre of Fira. Tables are spread at graded levels. Its comparative advantages are: spectacular view, romantic atmosphere, excellent service. The cuisine served here is a unique version of Mediterranean dishes with some ethnic references. Also exquisite is the pasta. 

Fira, tel: 22860-23673


13.Saltsa

How can it be that one of the most outstanding restaurants of the island is not at the Caldera? However, it will be a pity if you are in Santorini and do not pass by Saltsa in Fira! A modern, cosy and hospitable taverna focusing even on the smallest detail and two young people with great love for their work. Dimitris Lazarou, chef and owner, along with Lilian, his wife, are the soul of the restaurant. White eggplants with crust from sesame and spices, cuttlefish risotto with leek and fennel root, spring rolls with “syglino” of Mani, finochio and orange. Do not miss trying the “loukoumi” ice-cream with caramelized rose leaves. 

Fira, tel: 22860-28018 

14.Aktaion 

The oldest restaurant in Santorini, since 1922. Vagelis Roussos, third generation in Aktaion, prepares distinguished Greek cuisine and Santorini dishes for the very few tables in the yard on the Caldera, following his own and his mother’s recipes. Fava meatballs, zucchini pie, local white eggplants with fava, the “vineyard’s” lamb and mousakas with white eggplant. The interior is full of art works created by himself in the winter, sculpture on painted wood and painting in pastel colours. 

Firostefani, tel: 22860-22336

15.Ginger

A brand new entry in Firostefani that increases our options at probably the most beautiful spot of Santorini. A “raw bar” offering sushi at the sushi bar, but also warm dishes. A comfortable place and spacious yard with a gorgeous garden that makes you feel right under the stars. 

Firostefani, tel: 6944-241162

16.Imerovigli

Even though almost everybody runs to Oia for the sunset, those who really know choose Imerovigli. Here, at the Caldera, above the central alley with the superb view, there is the Imerovigli restaurant, one of the best solutions for a delicious calm dinner in an environment which is not posh but simple and relaxing. Personal service, high quality materials and a variety of excellent made Greek and Santorini dishes offered by the owners, who will make you feel at home. Try fish fillet with vegetables cooked in a “pilino” (ceramic pot), lamb rolled in vine leaves, lahanodolmades (cabbage-rolled meat) and karidopita (walnut pie) with ice-cream. Make a reservation. Open also for lunch. 

Imerovigli, tel: 22860-24190

17.Selene 

One of the most beautiful terraces of the Caldera with Greek cuisine only with local products. The host, Mr Hatzigiannakis, a Greek who brought the “Slow Food Movement” in Greece. Exquisite raw materials, love for cooking and gastronomy and a creative look, all integrated in Greek recipes. If you are a company of two, book a table at the upper terrace which has the most splendid view! Far from the hubbub of Fira, it will surely steal your heart! Should it be cold outside, the interior is also unique. 

Fira, tel: 22860-22249

18.Koukoumavlos 

Nikos Pouliasis is the only one in Santorini who is bold enough to make scampi tails with white chocolate sauce with lime and ginger, and the outcome is highly interesting. The service is exceptional without being posh. The classical yposkafo at the alley with the cosy decoration and opera selections by Mr Pouliasis will captivate your heart! 

Fira, tel: 22860-23807

19.Vanilia 

Romantic environment in a gorgeous garden with a pergola and terrace with a view. White colours, flowers, large cushions and ambient music. All this in a place where a mill used to stand way back in 1872, operating also as a bakery making bread and fava. Greek creative cuisine which is renewed every year with high quality Greek products and fresh fish. Ask for the aperitif “Vanilia house cocktail” with rose and champagne and book a table at the terrace.

Firostefani, tel: 22860-25631

ON BEACHES

20.Ta Dihtia 

You can smell the fish on the grill only by approaching the taverna “Ta Dihtia” (fishnets)! For fifteen years now, there has been a cosy fish-taverna on the Perivolos beach (blue chairs, checked white-blue tablecloths), among the first ones that opened in the area. Everything looks and is perfectly neat and clean. The owner is from the island of Crete, therefore you will also find Cretan recipes, such as “hohlii”, “boubouristi” and “mizithropitakia with peppermint”. In the end you will be treated “simigdalenios halvas” (semolina halva) with kaymak (gum mastic) ice-cream. 

Perivolos Beach, Agios Georgios, 
tel: 22860-82818


21.Sea Side Lounge by Notos

Not only is it one of the most beautiful beach bars of the island, but also a restaurant we have adored even from its previous location in Vlyhada. The owner loves travelling and trying ethnic tastes, and that is where his influences derive from. It is interesting how Greek tastes fuse with elements from the Far East. I do not know exactly why but there are moments, when sitting at the relaxing ambiance of Sea Side by Notos, I feel as being in Zanzibar. Their desserts are also delicious, with “banofi” as number one. 

Agios Georgios, Perivolos, tel: 22860-82801
http://www.seaside-restaurant.gr/ 


22.Nyhteri

It is regarded as one of the best tavernas in Kamari. A modern “mezedopolio” serving Greek traditional “mezedes” (local dishes), with emphasis on local products cooked in a light healthy way. Fava with caramelized onions, fillet with Vinsanto sauce and delicious “simigdalenios halvas” (semolina halva) topped with plenty of cinnamon. Its trademark is the “Ifestio” (Volcano), i.e. yoghurt ice-cream with tomato marmalade. 

Kamari Beach, tel: 22860-33480


23.Skaramagas

Situated on the Monolithos Beach. Here the variety is rich, but the highlight is the fresh fish he himself fishes every day on his fishing boat. Its specialty is bouillabaisse soup and some home-made dishes cooked by Mrs Maria.

Monolithos Beach, tel: 22860-31750

24.Aquarius

Tables right by the sea on the sand of Perissa Beach offering an ideally relaxing setting. Besides the traditional Greek dishes, salads, meat on the grill, soups and seafood, you will also find pizzas and spaghetti, for which it is famous. Delivery also available. 

Perissa Beach, tel: 22860-82019

25.Atlantis Island

Situated on the Perissa beach, it offers a superb sea view. It has been awarded by the Hellenic Tourism Organisation (EOT) for its Greek traditional cuisine. Everybody is infatuated with its pastitsio! Food served also under the umbrellas on the beach. Another reason for you to come and try the high-quality food here is the very good prices!

Perissa Beach, tel: 22860-81473 

26.Kyra Rosa 

Going through the coastal road on your way from Fira to Oia, at the Vourvoulos village, you will meet Mrs Rosa. She is not old and fat , as you would probably expect! Her frying way is renowned all over Santorini! Fry fish, red mullets, tomatokeftedes (tomato balls) and devil fish with skordalia (garlic paste). From time to time you may find braized squab or rabbit (in red sauce) and some of Rosa’s creative dishes. 

Vourvoulos, tel: 22860-24378

27.Giorgaros 

The rustic scene you confront here “mom cooking, little daughter serving” is undoubtedly picturesque. One thing is for sure: you will not come here neither for the environment nor the service. You will come mainly for the fresh fish right from the family’s fishing boats. You will also find a lot of locals eating here. Ask for cautious frying.

Akrotiri, Faros, tel: 22860-83035

28.Marmit 

An elegant cosy restaurant with refined cuisine and exceptional service, which will fully satisfy you. The Greek cuisine with lots of creative nuances. You should try everything! We have tried fava boiled with vegetables and sweet onions, a delicious full fresh cool salad and shrimps with Hios mastic; we loved them all. Here you will find one of the most updated cellars with Santorini wines and wines from all over Greece. Situated at the Square of Megalohori. Open also in Winter. 

Megalohori, tel: 22860-81603

29.Raki

A very picturesque little taverna at the Square of Megalohori with local “mezedes” and a unique character. Raki and a variety of exquisite accompanying mezedes, our favourite being fried pie with honey and sesame. Economical prices.

Megalohori, tel: 22860-81724

30.Vinsanto restaurant and lounge 

The red and iron elements create a very atmospheric and imposing interior space. Also impressive is the exterior space of the restaurant, where tables are spread at the terraces of the hyposkapha with the red sails waving in the wind. The creative Greek cuisine brings out wonderful results. Top desserts are the flat-leaved basil crème with tomataki glyko (small tomato-sweet of the spoon) and “melomarakona” with “loukoumi” (Turkish delight) cream.

Megalohori, Vedema Resort Hotel, tel: 22860-81796


Snacks

1.Café Energie Crêperie  

If you like crêpes, this is the right place for you! Great variety of salty and sweet crêpes. Do try the one with chocolate and hazelnuts. 

Fira, tel: 22860-24997  

2.Grandma’s

Giant “pita” (round, brown, wheat flatbread made with yeast) stuffed with "gyros” 
(thin slices of pork). Among other specialties are the baked potatoes filled with any dressing you like and vegetables. Rich portions both for non-vegetarians and vegetarians. 

Perissa Beach, tel: 22860-81229

3.Kantina 

Super delicious “souvlaki”(skewered grilled meat) and juicy hamburger. Choose “kalamaki” (skewered grilled meat with a regular piece of bread) and the unique sausage with cheese. 

Kamari, tel: 22860-32839

4.Lucky’s Souvlakis

Besides the amazing Lucky's souvlaki, 
also try the falafel and Arabian.  

Fira, tel: 22860-22003

5.Svoronos 

The most well-known bakery in Fira. 
Meeting point after all night clubbing 
with fully fresh pastry goodies. 

Fira, tel: 22860-23446


6. Bonjour
Meeting point for everyone right on the square, where you can enjoy coffee, sandwiches, omelettes and a great variety of different brands of beer. One of the few cafés of the island that remain open in winter, as well. It even offers free wi-fi for customers.

Fira, 7.00 a.m. - 3.00 a.m., 
tel.: 22860-23744 


7.Café Del ?ar e Sol 
The perfect combination of aesthetics and a unique view on the Caldera! Relaxing atmosphere for coffee in the morning and drink in the night. 

Fira, 7.30 p.m. - late in the night, 
tel: 22860-21139

8.Classic?
Veranda at two levels, espresso coffee and breathtaking view! Home-made pancakes, ice-cream and selected fresh pastries.

Fira, 7.00 a.m. - 1.00 a.m.,
tel: 22860-23112

9. Enigma Café 
A well-established haunt known for its magical view, bit music and excellent service. Try Continental breakfast and the most amazing cocktails. 

Fira, 10.00 a.m. - 1.30 a.m., 
tel: 22860-24024 

10.Franco’s Café
It has been one of the “hot issues” this year on the island. In fact, the founder of the legendary Franco’s Bar in Fira has transferred his concept to this café in Pyrgos. Don’t miss the tartes that are prepared right before your eyes and the chocolate fondue, always under the sound of atmospheric music. 

Pyrgos, 10.00 a.m. - late in the night, 
tel: 22860-33957 

11.Kath’­­Odon
Pleasant, friendly ambiance, the locals’ favourite café for the Greek coffee prepared on ember, fantastic crêpes and waffles. Open from morning serving rich breakfast and salads.

Karterados, from 7.00 a.m. - late in the night, 
tel: 22860-28549 

12. Kokkino Podilato
Stylish café, with a view on the Caldera and excellent service. Coffee, pastries, dishes and cocktails that will make you lose your mind! 

Oia, 9.00 a.m. - 2.00 a.m., 
tel: 22860-71918

13.Magma

A tasteful elegant café at the centre of Fira serving breakfast, home-made desserts, as well as fantastic cocktails in the evening. 
Fira, 7.30 a.m. - 1.00 p.m. 
tel: 22860-25805

14.Mylos Café
New hot point at the restored flour-mill with a spectacular view! You can begin with breakfast and go on with a drink and cocktail (it even offers laptop at the upper level!).

Firostefani, 8.00 a.m. - late in the night, 
tel: 22860-25640  

15.Nick’s
Red and grey, relaxing atmosphere and lounge music. Breakfast, coffee and light dishes in case you get hungry. 

Fira, 8.30 a.m. - 1.00 a.m., 
tel: 22860-25000 

16.Sun Spirit
Near the Oia castle, right on the brow of the Caldera serving coffee, drink and cocktails. ?ew entry café, built at two levels to enjoy the amazing sunset.

Oia, 12.00 a.m. - late, 
tel: 22860-71655 

17.Vertigo
New café that is transformed into a cocktail bar with lounge music in the night. The three levels offer an amazing view on the Caldera while you relax on the white comfortable sofas. 

Fira, 8.00 a.m.- 4.00 a.m., 
tel: 6948302202

Pastry shops

1.Zotos
The “most ancient” pastry shop in Santorini with traditional desserts and home-made 
ice-cream. Its chocolate pastries are famous 
all over the island! 
Fira, 9.00 a.m. - 11.00 p.m., tel: 22860-22287 

2. ?aravan
The world famous Oriental recipes in 
a Cycladian setting! Syrup desserts for your summer hypoglycaemia! 
Fira, 8.00 a.m. - 2.00 a.m., tel: 22860-25670 

3. Melenio
The shop window with the desserts attracts the eye of anyone passing the alley. 
Enjoy your breakfast, coffee and vinsanto 
ice-cream while sitting at the veranda. 
Oia, 9.00 a.m. - late in the night, tel: 22860-71149


Perissa — the black sand village — offers the best of both worlds; chill out by the pool with a strawberry colada at Soul Bar or enjoy live music on the beachfront at Yazz. If the dancing mood strikes you, head to Beach Bar around 2AM.

You’ll find some traditional tavernas in Megalochori, Vlychada, and Perissa where the food is excellent and moderately priced. Try God’s Garden in Perissa, where the moussaka is as close to perfect as I’ve had. Or the lamb plate at Xani’s on Perissa’s main road — a generous portion for just 5€.

Dimitri’s in Vlychada is unassuming to look at, but serves up excellent seafood. And being that Santorini is such a beautiful and varied island, you can have great views from almost anywhere.
